Sentence Number: 1 1 1 WOS 
 Despite the diverse and widespread beneficial
applications of biotechnology products, there remains a critical need to
present these benefits to the general public in a real and
understandable way that stimulates an unbiased and responsible public
debate.

Sentence Number: 2 ? ? WOS 
 Health Perspect.

Sentence Number: 3 ? ? WOS 
 76.30%), LM
area (49.8 vs.

Sentence Number: 4 1 1 LEXIS 
 Kate Wing, a Natural Resources Defense Council analyst, said the industry lobbying had been unrelenting.

Sentence Number: 5 1 1 WOS 
 Although phytate and
polyphenols have antioxidant properties, they interfere with digestion
and uptake of nutrients.

Sentence Number: 6 1 -1 WOS 
 Real-Time, or kinetic PCR, points out
quantification and interpretation limits when quantification has to be
done on a very small total DNA amount.

Sentence Number: 7 1 1 LEXIS 
 The public reaction to last month's rice incident has been muted, especially compared with the discovery six years ago that genetically engineered corn approved only for animal consumption slipped into the human food supply.

Sentence Number: 8 1 1 WOS 
 We substituted the
arginine 304 present in the wild-type H. verticillata phytoene
desaturase (PDS) with all 19 other natural amino acids and tested PDS
against fluridone.

Sentence Number: 9 1 1 LEXIS 
 While these guidelines are generally voluntary, they are mandatory for any research conducted under Federal grants and they are widely followed by academic and industrial scientists around the world.

Sentence Number: 10 1 1 WOS 
 By using a competitive
immunoassay with a limit of detection of approximately 60 ng of Cry1Ab
protein ' per gram of chicken muscle, neither the Cry1Ab protein nor
immunoreactive peptide fragments were detectable in the breast muscle
homogenates from chickens fed YG grain.

Sentence Number: 11 1 1 WOS 
 The method was then applied to a model
biscuit made of transgenic materials baked for the purpose and to real
samples such as feed and foodstuffs.

Sentence Number: 12 ? ? WOS 
 (C) 2003
Elsevier Ltd. 

Sentence Number: 13 1 1 LEXIS 
 The risk of harm from transgenic crops is inherently unpredictable and, if it occurs, so difficult to remedy that it is a risk not worth taking.

Sentence Number: 14 ? ? LEXIS 
 Who is the natural constituency for earth-friendly biotechnology?

Sentence Number: 15 1 1 LEXIS 
 Bill Wilson, an NDSU agricultural economist, spoke Wednesday at the NDSU Extension Service Biotechnology Workshop.

Sentence Number: 16 1 1 WOS 
 Seeds of transgenic plants have been widely used to generate a
raw material for the extraction and isolation of proteins and
polypeptides, which can be processed into valuable biopharmaceuticals.

Sentence Number: 17 1 1 LEXIS 
 "In Denmark, we all want it to be labeled _ all of us.

Sentence Number: 18 1 -1 WOS 
 On the industrial scale, the majority of vitamins are
produced using methods of chemical synthesis or through the extraction
of natural substances, but, in many cases, those processes consume high
amounts of energy and generate high waste disposal and waste utilization
costs.

Sentence Number: 19 1 1 LEXIS 
 Biotechnology also offers hope of improving the nutritional benefits of many foods.

Sentence Number: 20 1 1 LEXIS 
 The biopharming industry also is taking criticism from its biggest customers, food companies.

Sentence Number: 21 1 1 LEXIS 
 " But there were tests.

Sentence Number: 22 1 1 WOS 
 By 2050 the projected atmospheric
[CO(2)] and ground level [O(3)] will be 50% and 20% higher than today.

Sentence Number: 23 1 1 LEXIS 
 For those who think that way, the Terminator has become a powerful symbol.

Sentence Number: 24 -1 1 LEXIS 
 Growing seasons vary, Groff said as a caveat, but GM seeds have cut my soybean herbicide costs in half.

Sentence Number: 25 1 1 WOS 
 Here, the restyling of the European regulatory frame on transgenic
agro-food products and of science communication models are discussed and
taken to be indicative of the (re)quest to move from a merely scientific
evaluation and risk-based policy towards a socially more robust
evaluation that takes the "non-scientific" concerns at stake in the GMO
debate seriously.

Sentence Number: 26 1 1 LEXIS 
 ''The company just decided it was not in its best interest to let it continue,'' Dr. Ostlie said.

Sentence Number: 27 1 1 WOS 
 In the early to mid 1990s, nearly 45% of the IR-4
residue projects supported new herbicide registrations for fruits and
vegetables with the other 55% devoted to fungicides, insecticides, and
nematacides.

Sentence Number: 28 1 1 WOS 
 This was
achieved by expressing a codon-optimized version of a diacylglycerol
acyltransferase 2A from the soil fungus Umbelopsis (formerly
Mortierella) ramanniana in soybean seed during development, resulting in
an absolute increase in oil of 1.5% (by weight) in the mature seed.

Sentence Number: 29 1 1 WOS 
 Evaluation of the concordance of the
chemical composition of transgenic and conventional crops (i.e.,
verification of substantial equivalence) is not sufficient for proving
the safety of transgenic food.

Sentence Number: 30 1 1 LEXIS 
 The advantage, he says, is that he doesn't have to worry about his landlords changing and his access to land disappearing.

Sentence Number: 31 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 According to the ISAAA, in 2001, the United States grew an estimated 88 million acres of transgenic crops.

Sentence Number: 32 1 1 LEXIS 
 " The initial 12 participants include six land-grant institutions that are among the largest owners of active patents in agricultural biotechnology: Cornell, North Carolina State, and Rutgers Universities, the University of California system, and the Universities of Florida and Wisconsin at Madison.

Sentence Number: 33 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 In 2001, U.S. food companies recalled more than $1 billion worth of corn chips, tortillas and other corn after it was learned they might contain an unauthorized variety of corn called Starlink.

Sentence Number: 34 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 Some transgenic plants are engineered to produce a pesticide, which could potentially harm or kill non-target organisms or allow pests to develop immunity to the pesticide.

Sentence Number: 35 ? 1 LEXIS 
 Clayton Carter Unity LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007 DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper                         Copyright 2007 Bangor Daily News

Sentence Number: 36 1 1 WOS 
 Due to the preparation of new EU legislation on the adventitious and
unavoidable presence of genetically modified seeds in conventional seed
lots, quantification of the contamination of conventional seed lots is
becoming more and more important.

Sentence Number: 37 1 1 WOS 
 The adding CaSO4 process, predominantly a chemical
reaction, had less influence on the transgenic gene than on the
endogenous gene, the latter being degraded from 836 to 407 bp.

Sentence Number: 38 1 1 LEXIS 
 That means, he says, that the central dogma is wrong.

Sentence Number: 39 -1 1 WOS 
 A correction factor was used to try to compensate for
these differences.

Sentence Number: 40 1 1 WOS 
 Attempts to alleviate cassava cyanide
toxicity have included the development of an information network and
distribution in developing countries of picrate kits, which measure
total cyanide in cassava and urinary thiocyanate.

Sentence Number: 41 1 1 WOS 
 Moreover, the trans-regulation of these genes deviates from
Mendelian inheritance.

Sentence Number: 42 1 -1 WOS 
 This cultivar
currently accounts for about 70% of Hawaii's papaya acreage.

Sentence Number: 43 1 1 LEXIS 
 " The labeling bill passed the Senate 22-14 on Monday but must be approved by both committees before it can be subject to a vote by the full Assembly.

Sentence Number: 44 1 1 WOS 
 An effort to find a rice
sequence usable as an internal positive control for the screening of the
transgenic rice resulted in the identification of an RBE4 gene sequence,
which appears as one copy within the rice genome, and is rice-specific.

Sentence Number: 45 ? ? WOS 
 (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. 

Sentence Number: 46 1 1 WOS 
 Initiatives to approach the acceptance or
rejection of a number of risk-associated hypotheses is badly needed.

Sentence Number: 47 ? ? LEXIS 
 Is our privacy doomed to drown in a sea of cross-linked databases?

Sentence Number: 48 1 1 LEXIS 
 In July 2000, the cover of Time magazine hailed it as the rice that "could save a million kids a year.

Sentence Number: 49 1 1 LEXIS 
 ' J.J. Sutton, a movie theater employee and Garner High School student, of Garner: 'If it doesn't have any side effects, I guess it would be all right.

Sentence Number: 50 ? 1 LEXIS 
 " asked Hope Shand, research director of the Rural Advancement Foundation International.

Sentence Number: 51 1 1 WOS 
Genetically modified (GM) papaya lines have been approved for
commercialization and are widely cultivated in many countries.

Sentence Number: 52 1 -1 LEXIS 
 In 2001 a group of scientists announced that they had engineered a transgenic tomato plant able to thrive in salty soil.

Sentence Number: 53 1 1 WOS 
 Further
refinements are accomplished by employing Q-mutated virD2 and
isopentenyl transferase cytokinin genes to impair T-DNA integration and
select against backbone integration, respectively.

Sentence Number: 54 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 "The Green Revolution had an overwhelmingly positive impact in terms of huge increase production in Asia and to some extent in Latin America, significant increases in farmer incomes and contributing to a rapid reduction in poverty and food insecurity in Asia in particular," says Mark Rosegrant, who heads the Environment and Production Technology Division at the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington.

Sentence Number: 55 1 1 LEXIS 
 Europeans see it simply as Americans trying to tell them what they should eat, said Rudolph Strohmeier, who is with the directorate general of agriculture for the European Commission, part of the E.U. Charlotte Antonsen, a Liberal Party member of the Danish Parliament, described Danes as unanimous in wanting to know what is in their food.

Sentence Number: 56 -1 1 LEXIS 
 Their concerns include the possibility of genes escaping to the wild leading to 'superweeds,' crops becoming less hardy and suspectible to disease, insects becoming resistant to natural insecticides, causing increased reliance on chemicals, and the largely unknown, long-term effects of genetically altered foods on human health.

Sentence Number: 57 1 -1 LEXIS 
 Futures prices for long-grain rice plunged as European importers reacted by demanding that each shipment be tested, and some other countries banned imports.

Sentence Number: 58 -1 -1 WOS 
 What happens to the toxins in non-target herbivores, and whether these
herbivores may act as intermediaries through which the toxins may be
passed on to the natural enemies, remains to be studied.

Sentence Number: 59 1 1 WOS 
 The contents of important nutrients of beta-carotene and
vitamin C and two natural toxicants, including benzyl isothiocyanate
(BITC) and carpaine, were compared by analysis of variance (ANOVA).

Sentence Number: 60 1 1 LEXIS 
 For those who think that way, the Terminator has become a powerful symbol.

Sentence Number: 61 1 1 WOS 
 However, mineral content is not the only factor of
relevance for improving the nutritional status of poor populations.

Sentence Number: 62 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 But for grass seed growers such as Donald Wirth of Tangent, an invasion of hard-to-kill bentgrass in his ryegrass or fescue fields could spell catastrophe.

Sentence Number: 63 1 1 WOS  
gamma-Linolenic acid (GLA; C18:3 Delta 6,9,12) is a nutritionally
important fatty acid (FA) playing a vital role in biological structures
and cellular functions, which is not produced in oil seed crops.

Sentence Number: 64 1 -1 LEXIS 
 Farmers work their own land or land that NAF Ventures owns in return for management fees of $85 to $185 an acre -- more if the crop is biotech.

Sentence Number: 65 1 -1 LEXIS 
 At least 16 companies are known to be testing drugs in plants.

Sentence Number: 66 1 1 WOS 
 Total Fe content in the whole grain including husk (r
= 0.28, NS) and total Fe content in brown rice (r = 0.09, NS) was not
significantly correlated with Fe concentration in white rice.

Sentence Number: 67 -1 -1 WOS 
 The use of
transgenic crops will probably maintain or even increase the need for
effective resistance management programmes.

Sentence Number: 68 1 1 LEXIS 
 Vayda, in partnership with John Jemison of Cooperative Extension, conducted a two-year study which confirmed Monday that genetically modified corn can cross-pollinate with conventional hybrid corn.

Sentence Number: 69 ? 1 WOS 
 Implementation of PMIP-T would permit
inexpensive, reliable and high-throughput screening for NFGM
specifically The paper outlines key NFGM prospects and challenges as
well as the PMIP-T concept.

Sentence Number: 70 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 It's probably too late to stop what Wilmut started.

Sentence Number: 71 ? -1 LEXIS 
  
                     Arkansas Democrat-Gazette (Little Rock)                            January 29, 2005 Saturday Growers leery of modified rice Farm group is concerned; don't be hasty, UAMS warns LENGTH: 1101 words BRINKLEY - The specter of genetically engineered rice contaminating one of Arkansas' premier crops has some farmers worried.

Sentence Number: 72 1 1 LEXIS 
 The samples were found as far as three miles outside the control area established for the crop's cultivation -- in other words, well outside a buffer designed to prevent the escape of seeds and pollen.

Sentence Number: 73 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 On the other hand, other scientific critics say, if the technology continues to develop as it has, society is inviting a vast genetic gamble with nature.

Sentence Number: 74 1 1 WOS 
 Political, economical, and ecological issues related to
transgenic crops are not discussed.

Sentence Number: 75 1 1 WOS 
 First, the crop
can be completely isolated physically from its food or feed counterpart
during every aspect of its development and commercialization.

Sentence Number: 76 -1 -1 WOS 
 These results demonstrate that modulating
the Ca signaling cascade in planta via unregulated enhanced CDPK
activity can lead to off-type effects likely due to the broadly
integrated nature of these enzymes in signaling.

Sentence Number: 77 1 1 LEXIS 
 In the Iowa case, the surrounding cornfields were burned.

Sentence Number: 78 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 Based on the molecular identity of the protein, scientists often can predict whether it will be an allergen even before engineering a plant to produce it, according to Bob B. Buchanan, a professor of plant and microbial biology at Berkeley.

Sentence Number: 79 1 1 WOS 
 Temperature exerted only minor effects (15% within 90
min at 85 degreesC/pH 8.4).

Sentence Number: 80 1 1 LEXIS 
 Production costs for land and labor are significantly lower as well, he added.

Sentence Number: 81 -1 -1 WOS 
 These proteins are
also suspected to be relevant to the increasing allergies to plants.

Sentence Number: 82 1 1 LEXIS 
 Rep. Tim Finseth, R-Angus, recently introduced a bill - HF551 - that, if passed, would pave the way for an ethanol plant in northwest Minnesota.

Sentence Number: 83 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 The waiting should disappear next year when the company opens a manufacturing facility in Rhode Island, but not every firm with a promising protein will be able to find the production capacity it needs.

Sentence Number: 84 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 " Poor farmers have yet to benefit from the technology on a broad scale, the report said.

Sentence Number: 85 -1 -1 WOS 
 Processes of
dal making developed at the Central Food Technology Research Institute
and at Pantnagar have shown promise in minimizing the milling losses in
traditional milling.

Sentence Number: 86 1 1 WOS 
 Methods: Recombinant human lactoferrin was expressed in the rice cell
culture system, and its biologic activity was assessed by iron-binding
and -releasing properties, antimicrobial activity, and binding and
uptake to Caco-2 cells.

Sentence Number: 87 1 1 WOS 
 Tobacco plants transgenic for Lachrymatory Factor Synthase
(LFS) enzyme activity from onion were first produced by introducing a
CaMV 35S-onion-lfs gene construct.

Sentence Number: 88 -1 -1 WOS 
 Results of this study suggest the feasibility
of utilizing thermostable beta d-amylase in transgenic potatoes for the
starch-processing industries.

Sentence Number: 89 -1 1 WOS 
 Understanding these processes, which will require
both biochemical and -omics research, should lead to improved
biofortification strategies based on transgenic or conventional
approaches.

Sentence Number: 90 1 1 WOS 
 Implementation of these systems comes with specific technical
requirements for each particular step of the food processing chain.

Sentence Number: 91 -1 1 LEXIS  Government regulators also need to consider the effects that a confinement failure could have on other nations.

Sentence Number: 92 1 1 WOS 
 The idea was to search for resistance factors
possible to introduce into oilseed rape (Brassica napus) by genetic
engineering.

Sentence Number: 93 ? ? WOS 
While torenia (Torenia fournieri Lind.

Sentence Number: 94 1 1 WOS 
 The primary objective of this study was to generate
transgenic plants of the "Kennebec" potato variety for production of
thermostable beta-amylase using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation.

Sentence Number: 95 1 1 WOS 
The application of a ligation-dependent probe amplification (LPA)
technique to the simultaneous event-specific detection and relative
quantification of DNA from genetically modified organisms in foods is
described.

Sentence Number: 96 1 1 WOS 
Coexistence among genetically modified (GM) and non-GM cropping systems
and identity preservation at the field level are increasingly important
issues in many countries.

Sentence Number: 97 1 1 LEXIS 
                       The Star-Ledger (Newark, New Jersey)                             December 5, 1999 Sunday The redesign of what we eat raises issue: What's 'natural'?

Sentence Number: 98 1 1 WOS 
 Considering this point of view,
understanding the mechanism by which plants handle heavy metal exposure,
in particular cadmium stress, is a primary goal of plant-biotechnology
research or plant breeders whose aim is to create plants that are able
to recover high amounts of heavy metals, which can be used for
phytoremediation, or identify crop varieties that do not accumulate
toxic metal in grains or fruits.

Sentence Number: 99 1 1 WOS 
 In order to maintain greater
protection against environmental stresses, we developed transgenic
potato overexpressing Arabidopsis thaliana glutathione reductase gene
(AtGR1).

Sentence Number: 100 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 Some scientists are encouraged that their message is getting across.

Sentence Number: 101 1 1 WOS 
 Current debates about agricultural biotechnology and
mycotoxins reveal significant differences in perception of associated
risks and benefits.

Sentence Number: 102 -1 -1 WOS 
 In a small plot experiment,
we found higher numbers of whitefly in Vip, but this may be driven by
differences in leaf hair between the cotton cultivars.

Sentence Number: 103 1 1 WOS 
 Some unpredictable differences were detected: i) glucose and ribitol
dehydrogenase spot was unique of BT maize; ii) endochitinase A spot was
unique of WT maize; iii) triosephosphate isomerase 1 and one spot of
globulin-1 S were overexpressed while cytosolic 3-phosphoglycerate
kinase and one spot of aldose reductase were down-regulated in BT maize
with respect to WT.

Sentence Number: 104 1 -1 WOS 
It is now accepted that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; 20:5 Delta 5,8,11,14,17) and docosahexaenoic
acid (DHA, 22:6 Delta 4,7,10,13,16,19) play important roles in a number
of aspects of human health, with marine fish rich in these beneficial
fatty acids our primary dietary source.

Sentence Number: 105 ? ? LEXIS 
 Why has biotechnology become a trade issue?

Sentence Number: 106 1 1 WOS 
 Beyond agriculture, genomic technologies are also contributing to the
improvement of food processing, food safety and quality assurance as
well as the development of functional food products and the evolution of
new health management concepts such as 'personalised nutrition', an
emerging paradigm in which the diet of an individual is customised,
based on their own genomic information, to optimise health and prevent
disease.

Sentence Number: 107 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 Promising mass production yields, the application of transgenic crops has been accompanied by chemical fertilizers and pesticides applied on a large-scale.

Sentence Number: 108 ? ? LEXIS 
 SOURCE: Monsanto Company  INFO GRAPHIC: How crossbreeding differs from genetic engineering INFO GRAPHIC: What genes are and what they do PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper JOURNAL-CODE: nsl                     Copyright 1999 Newark Morning Ledger Co.

Sentence Number: 109 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 " Further, "The EPA's numbers claim greater benefits for the technology than even we do," he says.

Sentence Number: 110 1 1 LEXIS 
 However, a food containing genes from different species are not the same as their conventional counterpart.

Sentence Number: 111 -1 -1 WOS 
 To improve sustainability of
salmon farming we suggest that there is a need for new approaches to
guide research, for identification of ethical issues, and for engaging
stakeholders in resolving these challenges.

Sentence Number: 112 1 1 LEXIS 
 Ted Labuza, a University of Minnesota, St. Paul, scientist, talked about the regulation of the transgenic crops.

Sentence Number: 113 1 1 LEXIS 
 He said that because genetically engineered crops were regulated by the government, companies must carefully police how they are grown.

Sentence Number: 114 1 1 LEXIS 
 "No, because nothing can.

Sentence Number: 115 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 The rabbi said he fears that genes from non-kosher foods - such as pigs or insects - could be implanted in vegetables and Jews may unwittingly break kosher laws by eating them.

Sentence Number: 116 1 -1 WOS 
 In recent
years, several key steps have been identified at the molecular level,
enabling us to initiate transgenic approaches to engineer the transition
metal content of plants.

Sentence Number: 117 -1 -1 WOS 
 Innovations in pesticide delivery systems in plants
promise to reduce adverse environmental impacts even further.

Sentence Number: 118 1 1 LEXIS 
 Monsanto owns both Roundup and the Roundup-Ready technology used in 80 percent of all modified seeds.

Sentence Number: 119 ? ? LEXIS 
 PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper                    Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company

Sentence Number: 120 1 1 LEXIS 
 None was in South Dakota.

Sentence Number: 121 -1 1 WOS 
 The origins of Al(3+) resistance in wheat are perplexing
because all progenitors of this hexaploid species are reportedly
sensitive to Al(3+) stress.

Sentence Number: 122 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 Asians will not likely consume "orange rice" in the midst of abundant white rice.

Sentence Number: 123 1 -1 WOS 
 Because of the low number of template copies
required for detection and quantification, in combination with small
size of the amplicon (similar to100 bp), the assay may be applied to
analyses of raw materials as well as processed food and feed.

Sentence Number: 124 1 1 LEXIS 
 When used as a pesticide spray, Bt breaks down quickly and does not harm the environment.

Sentence Number: 125 -1 1 LEXIS 
 But consideration of the issue must also take into account the other side of the equation: the potential benefits of biotechnology.

Sentence Number: 126 1 1 WOS  
Genetically modified plants must be approved before release in the
European Union, and the approval is generally based upon a comparison of
various characteristics between the transgenic plant and a conventional
counterpart.

Sentence Number: 127 1 1 LEXIS 
 They made their own decisions about whether or not to use pesticides.

Sentence Number: 128 1 1 WOS 
 The chip detection system complies with the requirements of current EU
regulations and other countries where thresholds are established for the
labelling of GMO.

Sentence Number: 129 1 1 LEXIS 
 The melding together of biotechnology with farming has resulted in transgenic crops where specific genes from unrelated species are introduced into the original plant to increase the plant's resistance.

Sentence Number: 130 1 1 WOS 
 The western blotting analysis showed that the content of major
allergenic proteins in phytase-transgenic rice was 96.3% of that in
wild-type rice.

Sentence Number: 131 ? ? LEXIS 
 Visit the World Wide Web site of the Pioneer Press at http://www.twincities.com/mld/pioneerpress/ LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2003                Copyright 2003 Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service                        Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service

Sentence Number: 132 1 -1 WOS 
 Selection programmes have
improved forage production but historically have addressed relatively
few quality considerations.

Sentence Number: 133 1 1 LEXIS 
 Researchers at Large Scale Biology have already shown they can make large quantities of human proteins in tobacco-like plants (Nicotiana benthamiana) grown in greenhouses in Vacaville and Kentucky.

Sentence Number: 134 1 1 WOS 
 Responses to type of rice did not
differ between barrows and gilts, with no evidence of a diet x gender
interaction (P = 0.50) for any trait.

Sentence Number: 135 1 1 WOS 
 As such they have been the focus of
multidisciplinary research programs aiming to understand how they are
synthesized in microbes and plants, and to clone genes encoding the
corresponding enzymes and express them to modulate carotenoid production
in recombinant microbial and plant systems.

Sentence Number: 136 ? 1 WOS 
 in knowledge and future research needs are identified: research or
these could lead to improvements in the methods of hazard identification
for food chemicals.

Sentence Number: 137 ? 1 WOS 
 We want to investigate whether the foreign
gene will change the allergenicity of rice or not, should be evaluated
in order to clarify its pre-market safety.

Sentence Number: 138 1 1 LEXIS 
 Blowing in the wind Unlike altered crops such as soybean and wheat, genetically engineered trees are surrounded by their wild cousins.

Sentence Number: 139 1 1 WOS 
 To meet this need for tissue markers, we set
out to produce and characterize different transgenic maize lines, each
containing green fluorescent protein (GFP) in either endosperm or
embryo.

Sentence Number: 140 -1 1 WOS 
 While
scientization would seem to narrow opportunities for public
participation, this study finds that Mexican activists acting "in
defense of maize" engage science in multiple ways, using and producing
scientific knowledge as well as treating scientific discussions as a
stage for launching complex social critiques.

Sentence Number: 141 ? ? LEXIS 
 Who cares enough to lobby governments to underwrite frequently unprofitable research on transgenic crops that might restore soils or cut down on pesticides in poor countries?

Sentence Number: 142 1 1 LEXIS 
 It's a hidden hunger and it's quite insidious.

Sentence Number: 143 ? ? WOS 
 (C) 2002 Elsevier
Science B.V. 

Sentence Number: 144 1 -1 LEXIS  But if today's trees could tell their stories, some American branches would be whispering new tales of origin: epics of genetic engineering in 150 groves from Puget Sound to the palmetto flats of South Carolina.

Sentence Number: 145 1 1 WOS 
 This advances the need for a new green
revolution: higher productivity and at the same time less pressure on
the environment.

Sentence Number: 146 1 -1 LEXIS 
 This spring they will be planted on 90 million acres --- nearly a third of the country's total farm acreage.

Sentence Number: 147 -1 -1 WOS 
 On the basis of experience data from 1978 to 2003 and the prediction of future
demand, we got the conclusion that the food security poses a threat to
China and the development and extensive application of agricultural
biotechnologies may solve this problem, Transgenic technology may become
the agricultural biotechnology that possesses independent intelligent
property and leading position across the world.

Sentence Number: 148 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 But he predicts that labeling would have a chilling effect on the planting and consumption of biotech foods.

Sentence Number: 149 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 According to the UN's midrange projections, around 2050 the world's population will more or less level off.

Sentence Number: 150 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 No telling where they might lead.

Sentence Number: 151 1 1 LEXIS 
 So, while they are using the new breeding techniques, they remain committed to genetic engineering as well.

Sentence Number: 152 1 1 WOS 
 The relative activities of
beta-amylase in tubers of field-grown potatoes were compared, and the
maximum increase was found with transgenic line #6A of the pSUS4-AMY
construct which has an 11 fold greater increase than the untransformed
"Kennebec".

Sentence Number: 153 -1 -1 WOS 
 The different transgenics raised
utilizing the two genes merA and merB are very hopeful prospects.

Sentence Number: 154 ? ? LEXIS 
 What would stand in his way?

Sentence Number: 155 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 "Some people have used it.

Sentence Number: 156 1 1 LEXIS  Next time, "I'd like to have these units built locally and tailor made for corn and other agronomic species.

Sentence Number: 157 1 1 WOS 
 Here, one or several genes are stably integrated
into a single plant cell from which, after sustained division, a plant
can be regenerated in which every cell contains the newly introduced
gene(s).

Sentence Number: 158 1 1 LEXIS 
 While corporations prepare to cultivate crops for producing prescription drugs or industrial chemicals, environmental and scientific groups continue to ask the government to scale back development of genetically engineered crops.

Sentence Number: 159 1 1 LEXIS 
 Professor Pray said farmers who grew genetically modified crops reported no health complaints, such as headaches, nausea and skin irritation, compared to rice growers exposed to greater amounts of pesticides.

Sentence Number: 160 1 1 WOS 
Two recent major drivers of change in the food industry, particulary
with plant-based foods, have been gene technologies and the entry of
intellectual property into many areas of strategic and applied biology
of the principal food plants.

Sentence Number: 161 1 1 WOS 
 However, mineral content is not the only factor of
relevance for improving the nutritional status of poor populations.

Sentence Number: 162 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 They feel very confident they can manage pollen flow, she said.

Sentence Number: 163 ? -1 WOS 
 can be
efficiently removed from the root by various processing procedures.

Sentence Number: 164 1 1 LEXIS 
 One will consider a request from Pioneer Hi-Bred for a new method that would reduce how much of a farmer's field must be set aside as a refuge aimed at preventing insects from becoming resistant to its insect-resistant corn.

Sentence Number: 165 1 1 LEXIS 
 Critics reply that because the Food and Drug Administration doesn't require such ingredients in food to be labeled, there is no way to link GM foods to adverse health effects if they did occur.

Sentence Number: 166 1 1 WOS 
 Co-expression of the 15-kD P-zein with CgS(Delta 90) results in
elevation of protein-bound methionine content of tubers, but can not
overcome the phenotypical changes caused by CgS(Delta 90) and can not
significantly improve the nutritional value of tubers.

Sentence Number: 167 1 1 WOS 
 To improve salt tolerance in BR5, we introduced
the Escherichia coli catalase gene, katE.

Sentence Number: 168 -1 -1 WOS 
The world population is expanding rapidly and will likely be 10 billion
by the year 2050.

Sentence Number: 169 -1 -1 WOS 
 Longitudinal studies should be
included in evaluation of food safety whenever possible and sheep may be
a useful animal model for toxicological assessment.

Sentence Number: 170 1 1 LEXIS 
 Contrary to some newspaper reports, publication of the article was not meant to endorse the researchers' claims.

Sentence Number: 171 1 1 LEXIS 
 Until all these issues are answered, it is best for production agriculture to examine alternatives to planting GMOs," said Gary Goldberg, chief executive officer of the ACGA.

Sentence Number: 172 1 1 LEXIS 
 "There are a lot of legitimate concerns that have yet to be addressed by the agricultural biotech industry," said Rebecca Goldberg, who specializes in biotech issues for the Environmental Defense Fund in New York City.

Sentence Number: 173 1 1 WOS 
 The segment sensitive to the presence of GM in food comprised
mainly those younger than 35 years of age, single and with no children.

Sentence Number: 174 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 Someday, it could provide an environmentally friendly (not to say  profitable) alternative to the synthetics used on carpets in office  buildings that have been blamed for outbreaks of sickness.

Sentence Number: 175 1 1 LEXIS 
 People start saving the best seed from their harvest to plant the following season.

Sentence Number: 176 1 1 LEXIS 
  
                                The New York Times                             March 7, 2001 Wednesday                               Late Edition - Final Gene Research Finds New Use In Agriculture BYLINE:  By ANDREW POLLACK SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1 LENGTH: 1817 words As the controversy surrounding genetically modified foods intensifies, scientists are trying to use the rapidly growing knowledge about genes to enhance conventional breeding of crops and livestock rather than implant genes from one species into another.

Sentence Number: 177 1 1 LEXIS 
 " He argued that rather than taking away choices, the system can provide people with protection from pests, resistance to drought and benefits unavailable in countries where companies won't operate without patent protection.

Sentence Number: 178 1 1 LEXIS 
 But its detection in the peasant fields of Mexico, where all the corn varieties in the world had their origins 5,000 years ago, has farmers fearing that the altered gene could infect native plants, creating strange but beneficial traits like the ones that caused villagers to line up along Maldonado's fence six years ago.

Sentence Number: 179 1 1 WOS 
 A deeper analysis of chromatographic profiles was
then performed by the application of multivariate classification
techniques.

Sentence Number: 180 1 1 LEXIS 
 But they must not only persuade the FDA that their drugs are safe.

Sentence Number: 181 -1 -1 LEXIS 
 But Rissler says there is little evidence, even after 10 years of widespread use, that insects are becoming resistant to plant-based pesticides --- something industry critics warned was likely to happen swiftly when crops were engineered to manufacture their own pesticides as they grow.

Sentence Number: 182 1 1 LEXIS 
 He said his company has an obligation to educate the public about the benefits and dangers of cross-species transplantation.

Sentence Number: 183 1 1 LEXIS 
 One problem, Dr. Tanksley said, is knowing which wild plants to pick.

Sentence Number: 184 1 1 WOS 
 Nutrition scientists and other animal
biologists need a balanced understanding of the issues to participate in
this assessment.

Sentence Number: 185 1 1 WOS 
This article examines the opportunities for using several forms of
modern biotechnology to improve orphan crops in developing countries.

Sentence Number: 186 1 1 LEXIS 
 If the commission doesn't act, she intends to take Sher's amended bill to the Assembly floor for a vote.

Sentence Number: 187 1 -1 WOS 
Cassava is the staple food of tropical Africa and its production,
averaged over 24 countries, has increased more than threefold from 1980
to 2005, and the population has more than doubled over that time
compared with a 1.5 times increase worldwide.

Sentence Number: 188 1 1 LEXIS 
 Clearly, California needs to step up its protection of native species.

Sentence Number: 189 -1 -1 WOS 
 Gene technologies are likely to be important to achieve yields
sufficient for food, fuel and fibre production from available global
croplands, but sorghum has proven difficult to transform.

Sentence Number: 190 1 -1 WOS 
 The percentage of StarLink(TM) was less than 1% in quantiative analysis.

Sentence Number: 191 ? 1 WOS 
 The Brazilian government published the Decree n degrees 4.680 in April
2003, which requires labeling for all foods or food ingredients, with a
stricter labeling threshold of M Although polymerase chain reaction
technology has some limitations, the high sensitivity and specificity
explain why it has been the first choice of most analytical laboratories
interested in detection of genetically modified organisms and their
derived products.

Sentence Number: 192 1 1 WOS 
 The results revealed
that, although the transgenic lines possessed different types of
integration events, no unintended effects were identified.

Sentence Number: 193 1 1 WOS 
A construct-specific real-time PCR assay was developed for quantitative
detection of LibertyLink in rapeseed by using the junction region
between the 35S promoter and the pat gene.

Sentence Number: 194 -1 -1 WOS 
 Therefore, even a small improvement in nutritional content
of rice seeds can have a dramatic impact on human health.

Sentence Number: 195 1 1 WOS 
 Two groups
preferred oil without GM and oil with GM that reduces the use of
pesticides and rejected oil with GM that increases calcium content; the
larger of these groups (42.8%) preferred to pay a lower price, while the
other (16.8%) they preferred higher priced oils.

Sentence Number: 196 ? 1 WOS 
 First, the breeding must be successful high nutrient
density must be combined with high yields and high profitability.

Sentence Number: 197 1 1 WOS 
 t-EgI expressed in the transgenic plants degraded their own cell
wall materials after the cells were disrupted.

Sentence Number: 198 1 -1 LEXIS 
 But the real future of biotechnology lies in addressing the special problems faced by farmers in less developed nations.

Sentence Number: 199 1 1 WOS 
 However development of this technology must carefully consider the means to ensure the
separation of food and medicinal products when crop plants are used for
phytopharming.

Sentence Number: 200 1 1 LEXIS 
 He later apologized in the University of Guelph's faculty newspaper.
