
Document Number: 801
biotechnology companies have demonstrated that scientists cannot control where genes are inserted and cannot guarantee the resulting outcomes. Unexpected field results highlight the unpredictability of the science, yet combinations previously unimaginable are being field tested and used commercially. The nature of the process of genetic engineering produces unpredictable effects at the genetic and cellular level, which will inevitably have impacts at the ecological level. This paper highlights some major ecological concerns. SUPERWEEDS: Genetically engineered crops were first planted in the mid 1990s. Already, research has documented that genes producing desired characteristics in crops can confer adaptive advantages to weedy species, causing problems in valuable wild plant habitats. Research suggests that bees may be important pollen vectors over a range of distances and farm-to-farm spread of oilseed rape transgenes will be widespread. Pollen can also travel for miles in the wind and integrate its DNA into the genome of conventional plants. Genes from GEOs (genetically engineered organisms) can spread to wild plants and native species, resulting in herbicide resistant superweeds. For example, the pollen from transgenic rapeseed (canola) can blow into neighboring farms and wild areas and can easily outcross to any nearby canola plant. The herbicide resistant traits become promiscuous 



Document Number: 9040
that the new genes spliced into GE trees will interfere with natural forests isn't a hypothetical risk but a certainty. During our lives, genetic engineering may do as much damage to forests and wildlife habitat as chain saws and sprawl. This is not to say that every application of GE is bad. Sierra Club has taken no positions regarding genetic engineering done in labs or in indoor manufacturing of pharmaceuticals. But common sense should warn us that commercial development of out-of-doors applications in the absence of environmental safeguards is a prescription for disaster. Sierra Club opposes the out-of-doors deployment of genetic technologies because the genes are free - as free as pollen on the wind - to invade nature, and because once this has happened they can't be recalled. The arguments below are not intended to be inclusive but only to illustrate the nature of the problem. Corporations, as Milton Friedman pointed out, exist not to be ethical but to make money. And from the standpoint of a forestry company, wildlife habitat has very little value. "Growing the bottom line" is what such companies try to do, and among their strategies are clear cutting and replanting with uniform and fast 



Document Number: 3388
contain vitamins and nutrients severely lacking in the diets of the poor--are seen as a 21st-century version of the Green Revolution of the 1960s and '70s, when hybrid crop varieties and heavy use of fertilizers and irrigation boosted yields 20 to 30 percent. The promise of more abundant and more nutritious food appears to hold out the hope that hunger and disease can be alleviated. With potential like this, who wouldn't be in favor of genetically engineered crops? For starters, many of the people they are supposed to help. One of the strongest and most articulate voices to emerge in opposition to biotechnology is Tewolde Berhan Gebre Egziabher (formally addressed, as is Ethiopian custom, as Tewolde). Born to a peasant farming family in northern Ethiopia in 1940, Tewolde worked as a plant ecologist and university president before becoming the head of Ethiopia's Environment Protection Authority in 1995. Concerned with the impact that unregulated biotech products could have on the rich biodiversity of the developing world, and also with how the plight of hungry people was being used to promote genetic engineering, Tewolde has been a key international negotiator on issues of biotech safety and accountability. He helped hammer out the 



Document Number: 3074
is the only industrialized nation that permits this practice) and not using genetically engineered (GE) corn, potatoes, soy and so forth. What you can do Tell Kraft that you, like the majority of Americans, want GE free foods! Write to Irene Rosenfeld, CEO of Kraft Foods, Inc., 3 Lakes Drive, Northfield IL 60093 Call 1-800-847-1997 Examples of Products Sold by Kraft DAIRY: Kraft Macaroni Cheese, Kraft, Velveeta, Philadelphia Cream Cheese, Knudsens, Kraft Parmesan, Kraft Singles, Kraft Taste of Life, Minute Tapioca, Athenos Cheese, Cheez Whiz, Cracker Barrel, Sealtest, Breakstone's PIZZA: Tombstone, Jacks, DiGiorno's KID-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS: Barnum's Animal crackers, Chips Ahoy, and Jell-O POST Cereals: Alpha-Bits, Grape Nuts, Raisin Brans, Banana Nut Crunch, Pebbles, Toasties, Oreo's, etc. NABISCO: Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Snackwell's, Newtons, Ritz, Premium, Nabisco Honey Maid Grahams, Triscuit, Air Crisps, Wheat Thins, Nilla, Nutter Butter, Stella D'Oro, Better Cheddars, Cheese Nips, Barnum's Animal Crackers and Toastettes (as well as myriad line extensions of many of these brands.) BOCA BURGER MISC: Minute Rice, Miracle Whip, Good Seasons, Sure Jell, Certo, Kool-Aid, Seven Seas, Country Time, Taco Bell Home Originals, Baker's Baking Products, Maxwell House Coffee, Sanka, Yuban Coffee, General Foods International Coffee, Cool Whip, Dream Whip, Claussen Pickles, DiGiorno Italian 



Document Number: 3087
between species. The genetic manipulation resulting from genes inserted by genetic engineering cannot be recalled; the altered characteristics will be passed on to future generations and continue to be reproduced in the environment. Genetic engineering became possible with the advent of recombinant DNA technology, which for the first time allowed for the transfer, using laboratory procedures, of DNA from one species into the DNA of an unrelated species. For purposes of this policy, however, we define genetic engineering to include all direct molecular manipulation of the genetic structure of organisms or viruses, including additions of foreign genes (transgenes), gene alterations, duplications, or deletions. Genetic engineering is not, as many of its supporters claim, merely a more efficient form of traditional plant and animal breeding. There is a clear boundary between traditional breeding methods and the radically new technology of genetic engineering. A GENETICALLY ENGINEERED ORGANISM (GEO) is a single-celled or multicellular organism, the genetic structure of which has been altered by genetic engineering, resulting in genetic changes that could not be achieved using conventional breeding methods. (The terms "GEO," "genetically modified organism" and "genetically altered organism" all have the same meaning.) The accidental outflow of transgenes or altered genes from 



Document Number: 9043
that has annually wiped out more than 30% of all honeybees from 2005 to today! In light of the mounting evidence that new seed chemical coatings are deadly to bees, Sierra Club has been urging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to ban the use of specific chemical treatments to protect our bees and crops until more study can be done. At issue are the nicotinyl insecticides (also known as neonicotinoids) being used in a new way -- as seed coatings. For years, farmers have been spraying neonicotinoids onto their crops to stop insect infestation. Now huge agribusiness corporations have acquired patents to coat their proprietary corn seeds with these neonicotinoids. These “neonics” are extremely persistent. They enter the plant and are present in pollen and on droplets of water on leaves. Federal agencies in France, Germany and Italy have already taken responsible regulatory actions to suspend use of these pesticides based on the best available scientific evidence. Strikingly, honeybee populations in Italy immediately rebounded when these chemicals were suspended! The State of California has required that almost all 282 nicotinyl pesticide products be immediately re-evaluated because of toxic concentrations in pollen and nectar, and high residual concentrations in soil. Unfortunately, 



Document Number: 807
toxic to nontarget insects” like honey bees as EPA notes in the Ecological Risk Assessment document. Evidence supports that Imidacloprid has potent sublethal effects like disorientation and lethality in honey bees. However, EPA needs to move more expeditiously than the schedule proposed in the FR Notice of completion by 2014. EPA needs to require Imidacloprid’s manufacturer to submit multi-generation studies of chronic toxicity. Multi-generational studies of Imidacloprid toxicity must be thoroughly investigated by the EPA to adult honey bees and all stages of development. The EPA needs to require Imidacloprid’s manufacturer to submit multi-generational studies of chronic toxicity investigating not only at the impact of Imidacloprid exposure on adult honey bees, but also its effects on honey bee brood development and survival. EPA should check to find out if the results of multi-generational studies have already been conducted in Europe, and, if such studies have been conducted, the EPA needs to obtain copies of published data in peer-reviewed journals and any other pertinent information available at European governmental agencies and other organizations that may have conducted their own studies and trials. The EPA must likewise incorporate into its risk assessment information concerning Imidacloprid levels in the pollen and nectar of 



Document Number: 3927
of the mounting evidence that the nicotinyl insecticides (also known as neonicotinoids) are deadly to bees, the Sierra Club today reaffirmed its call for a U.S. moratorium on these powerful pesticides to protect our bees and crops, until more study can be done. The EPA is charged with properly implementing the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) for legal authorization to allow various pesticide applications. Yet more than one hundred and sixty Section 18 FIFRA emergency exemptions have been approved by EPA's OPP since 1997 without evaluating sublethal effects. "There are big holes in the science," said Laurel Hopwood, Sierra Club Genetic Engineering Committee chair. "The EPA has failed to evaluate the risks from sublethal effects due to low level exposures of the neonicotinoids on honey bees." "Neonicotinoids have been quantified in the the nectar and the pollen of plants. These pesticides can not only kill honey bees outright, but also the honey bees' ability to fight off infections may also be comprised," said Dr Neil Carman, Sierra Club Genetic Engineering Committee member. "Federal agencies in France and Germany have already taken responsible regulatory actions to suspend use of these pesticides based on the best available scientific evidence, but 



Document Number: 7707
Environmental Impact Statement Docket No. APHIS-2006-0112 on Introduction of Organisms and Products Altered or Produced Through Genetic Engineering Dear Secretary Johanns: The Sierra Club is submitting comments on the USDA Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) due to concerns about serious scientific gaps and regulatory flaws in the proposal. The Sierra Club represent 750,000 members nationwide and has a vital public interest in the future releases of new genetically engineering organisms into the environment and the exceptionally poor scientific basis and weak regulatory oversight that the Department of Agriculture persists in pursuing a fast pace in approving and deregulating genetically engineered crops. The agency, for example, is heavily responsible for its regulatory role in the numerous cases of genetic contamination by new genetically engineering organisms impacting American agriculture since the 1990s and continuing to occur in 2007. The Biotechnology Regulatory Services (BRS), a program within the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), is responsible for regulating the introduction-meaning the importation, interstate movement, and environmental release-of genetically engineered (GE) organisms. Finally APHIS has made available a draft environmental impact statement (EIS) that evaluates potential revisions to existing regulations regarding the importation, interstate movement and environmental release 



Document Number: 3039
crucial pollinators in agriculture and farming communities. Yet agriculture and food production may be severely impacted by Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD), a trend documented in honey bee colonies and prominently featured in a New York Times story (1). Beekeepers are reporting estimates as high as 80% loss of their honey bee colonies. Such a huge loss of the services of bees is extremely serious and beekeepers report it's a growing trend. The cause of CCD is unknown. Although factors being considered include pesticides, mites, microbial disease and habitat decline, there's a possible link that's not being investigated. Highly respected scientists believe that exposure to genetically engineered crops and their plant-produced pesticides merit serious consideration as either the cause or a contributory factor to the development and spread of CCD.(2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10) In searching for the cause of massive honey bee losses nationwide, we must leave no stone unturned to find the answer. This past decade we are seeing releases into the environment that we have never before seen on this planet. Genetic engineering involves the artificial transfer of genes from one organism into another, bypassing the protective barrier between species. Scientists admit that "unintended consequences" may occur due to the lack of 



Document Number: 1396
the genome of the GMO and becomes active in the cells of the GMO. If this GMO is consumed, then the inserted DNA enters the digestive tract along with any products that result from the activity of that DNA. For example, if the inserted DNA produced a toxic substance then consumption of the GMO entails consumption of that toxin. There are many food products available to consumers in the United States that contain GMO's. Among these are corn and soybeans. Presumably there are many American consumers who consume significant amounts of food containing GMOs since, aside from the direct consumption of corn and soybeans, these foods are used in producing many other food products. The United States government regards these food products as safe for human consumption even though there were no experimental tests to determine that consumption of such foods caused no harm. [1] There are good theoretical reasons to be concerned about the possibility of harm resulting from the consumption of GMOs. Some of these arise from the nature of the DNA that is inserted; some of these arise from the instability of inserted DNA generally. First let's talk about some questions that arise from the nature of 



Document Number: 5750
is scarce about health hazards, such as toxicity in genetically modified (GM) crops. It’s more difficult to evaluate the safety of crop-derived foods than individual chemical, drug, or food additives. Crop foods are more complex and their composition varies according to differences in growth and agronomic conditions. Publications on GM food toxicity are scarce. An article in Science magazine said it all: “Health Risks of Genetically Modified Foods: Many Opinions but Few Data”.1 In fact, no peer-reviewed publications of clinical studies on the human health effects of GM food exist. Even animal studies are few and far between. The preferred approach of the industry has been to use compositional comparisons between GM and non-GM crops. When they are not significantly different the two are regarded as “substantially equivalent”, and therefore the GM food crop is regarded as safe as its conventional counterpart. This ensures that GM crops can be patented without animal testing. However, substantial equivalence is an unscientific concept that has never been properly defined and there are no legally binding rules on how to establish it.2 GM foods may cause bacteria to become resistant to antibiotics.They can also produce allergies. When food-crops are genetically modified, (“genetically modified” food 



Document Number: 851
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) last Friday, sending strongly worded, bipartisan letters calling on the agency to halt approval of a controversial genetically engineered (GE) salmon under review. “Members of Congress have once again raised the stakes in the GE salmon debate,” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director of the Center for Food Safety. “FDA simply cannot continue to ignore the growing calls to stop this misguided approval.” The two letters were sponsored by Sen. Mark Begich (D-AK) and Rep. Don Young (R-AK) and joined by 21 members of the House and Senate. The letters remind FDA of an “ever-growing Congressional opposition” to the fish and call on the agency to shift priorities in light of the Young-Woolsey amendment that was included in the house-passed Agriculture Appropriations Act of 2012 that would bar the FDA from using funds in the 2012 fiscal year to approve GE salmon. More than 90 environmental, consumer, health, and animal welfare organizations, along with fishing groups and associations and food companies and businesses have celebrated the passage of the Young-Woolsey amendment, which is currently awaiting debate in the Senate. In September 2010, more than 40 members of Congress sent letters requesting FDA halt the approval 



Document Number: 3791
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from approving genetically engineered (GE) salmon. “We thank members of the House for stepping in to correct FDA’s misguided decision to go ahead with this approval process which fails to take into account a plethora of economic, human health, environmental and animal welfare concerns,” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director of the Center for Food Safety. “Any decision to approve GE salmon would be a continuation of the Obama Administration’s illogical biotech bailout at the expense of American jobs and our fishing economy.” During full floor debate of the Fiscal Year 2012 Agriculture and FDA appropriations bill, members of the House passed an amendment offered by Reps. Don Young (R-AK) and Lynn Woolsey (D-CA) to prohibit the use of FDA funds to approve any application for approval of genetically engineered salmon. The full appropriations bill entitled The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 2112) passed today by a 217-203 vote. The FDA currently approves GE animals through its new animal drug law, yet critics fault the process as failing to require adequate safety assessments and lacking transparency and public engagement. The decision to regulate GE animals as animal 



Document Number: 1256
a division of the pharmaceutical company Pfizer, has agreed to stop selling (for now) its arsenic-containing product, 3-Nitro, for use in chicken, turkeys and swine. In 1944, 3-Nitro became the first arsenic-containing product approved by the FDA for use in food animals. When combined with antibiotics and other drugs, 3-Nitro is widely used by poultry producers to help control a parasitic disease in animals, but also has been used to induce greater weight gain and to create the appearance of a healthier color in meat. IATP estimated in its 2005 report, Playing Chicken: Avoiding Arsenic in Your Meat, that more than 70 percent of all U.S. chickens raised for meat are fed arsenic. Neither European poultry producers nor organic producers use 3-Nitro. The sales suspension follows new FDA findings that use of 3-Nitro, which contains the organic arsenic roxarsone, also increases cancer-causing inorganic arsenic in chicken liver. The FDA did not test chicken muscle, the meat that most people eat. The FDA stressed that it did not think the increased arsenic in chicken posed a human health threat. Inorganic arsenic, however, is known to cause multiple cancers in humans, and the science suggests that any additional exposure in food or 



Document Number: 5124
of an amended complaint by the Public Patent Foundation (PUBPAT) in its suit on behalf of family farmers, seed businesses, and organic agricultural organizations—including the Center for Food Safety—challenging Monsanto’s patents on genetically modified seed. Twenty-three new plaintiffs have joined with the original 60 in the amended complaint, bringing the total number represented in the case to 83. The plaintiffs in the suit, titled Organic Seed Growers and Trade Association (OSGATA), et al. v. Monsanto and pending in the Southern District of New York, now include 36 family farmer, food, agricultural research, food safety, and environmental organizations representing hundreds of thousands of members including several thousand certified organic, biodynamic, or otherwise non-transgenic family farmers. “Our clients don’t want a fight with Monsanto, they just want to be protected from the threat they will be contaminated by Monsanto’s genetically modified seed and then be accused of patent infringement,” said PUBPAT Executive Director Daniel B. Ravicher. “We asked Monsanto to give our clients reassurance they wouldn’t do such a thing, and in response they chose instead to reiterate the same implicit threat to organic agriculture made in the past.” Soon after the March filing of the lawsuit, Monsanto issued a statement saying 



Document Number: 2746
Conservancy, Friends of the Earth, Center for Food Safety, Food & Water Watch, the Center for International Environmental Law, and Greenpeace, submitted a citizen petition yesterday to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) urging the Agency to withhold final action on an application to market the first ever genetically engineered (GE) salmon intended for human consumption in the U. S. The petition requests that FDA complete a comprehensive environmental impact statement on the risks GE fish could present to the natural marine environment before making a final decision. After a decade of behind-the-scenes work with the GE fish sponsor, AquaBounty Technologies, FDA announced last fall that it intended to approve AquaBounty’s application. In response, the public sent over 400,000 comments to the FDA opposing the “Frankenfish” and demanding mandatory labeling of any GE fish approved for sale to US consumers. FDA has not yet taken final action on the AquaBounty application. According to the petition, the application material released to the public raises serious concerns regarding potential destruction of wild salmon populations that require FDA to prepare an environmental impact statement under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The petitioners argue that the environmental assessment AquaBounty previously submitted to FDA, 



Document Number: 5738
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a summary order concluding a long-standing lawsuit over the impacts of genetically engineered (GE) “Roundup Ready” sugar beets. As a result, previous court rulings in favor of farmers and conservation advocates will remain, including the order requiring the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to prepare a rigorous review of the impacts of GE sugar beets, engineered to be resistant to Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide, before deciding whether to again allow their future commercial use. Center for Food Safety (CFS) attorney George Kimbrell: “Today’s order cements a critical legal benchmark in the battle for meaningful oversight of biotech crops and food. Because of this case, there will be public disclosure and debate on the harmful impacts of these pesticide-promoting crops, as well as legal protections for farmers threatened by contamination.” CFS, Organic Seed Alliance, High Mowing Organic Seeds, and the Sierra Club, represented by CFS and Earthjustice, challenged the USDA approval in 2008. They argued that GE sugar beets would contaminate organic and non-GE farmers of related crops, such as table beets and chard, as well as increase pesticide impacts on the environment and worsen the current Roundup-resistant “superweeds” epidemic in 



Document Number: 9146
the seed bank were treated. Numerous seed deposits were spilling out onto the floors of the facility, the facility was woefully understaffed, there was no testing of the seed and a virtually complete failure of required regeneration — in short a seed saving disaster. A legal petition by my organization to rectify the decision seemed to get the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) attention. But when no real action resulted we litigated. I was a very active member of that legal team. As such I reviewed much of the material in the case that documented USDA’s complete disregard for the safety and integrity of the seeds under its care. This litigation ultimately forced a settlement where USDA agreed to do an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and conditions at the seed bank improved somewhat. Since that first experience I learned that bigger is definitely not better or safer when it comes to seed saving. As noted elsewhere on this site, the Center for Food Safety (CFS) strongly advocates for in situ protection of plant diversity, and when ex situ seed saving is required it should reside at the most local and ecologically 



Document Number: 2322
and local organizations representing millions of Americans are filing an extensive petition today with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), laying out a case for an “endangerment finding” for ammonia gas and requesting that EPA list ammonia as a Clean Air Act criteria pollutant. The criteria pollutant program requires EPA to establish air quality standards that protect public health and the environment, and has been responsible for dramatic reductions in hazardous small particles, smog-forming chemicals, and lead pollution nationwide, saving billions of dollars in health care costs. Factory farms are the nation’s leading source of ammonia pollution, which causes respiratory health problems even at very low levels, yet air emissions from Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs), including toxic ammonia, have escaped Clean Air Act regulation for decades. The effort is led by the Environmental Integrity Project (EIP), and includes a diverse group of organizations that advocate for environmental protection, public health, animal welfare, and rural economies and communities. The petitioners include such groups as the Bloomberg School of Public Health’s Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future, the Sierra Club, the Humane Society of the United States, the Waterkeeper Alliance, and rural community organizations in California, Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, New 



Document Number: 4966
and recreational fisheries associations and food retailers, grocers and chefs held a joint press conference today demanding the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) deny approval of the long-shelved AquaBounty transgenic salmon and require mandatory labeling of the fish if approved despite intense opposition. If approved the transgenic salmon would be the first genetically engineered (GE) animal intended for human consumption. “Consumers clearly do not want to eat genetically engineered salmon and should FDA decide to move forward despite overwhelming opposition it must be labeled,” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director for the Center for Food Safety. Today the coalition presented the over 360,000 public comments that have been sent to FDA demanding the agency reject this application and require mandatory labeling of this transgenic salmon should it decide to approve it. Anticipating the stark danger to our fisheries and ocean environments – and trying to circumvent analyses of those dangers – AquaBounty has claimed that they will only raise their fish in land-based facilities. However, many states ban raising transgenic fish in land-based facilities. Moreover, a recent Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request revealed that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) knowingly withheld a Federal Biological Opinion by the 



Document Number: 6633
Fjeld/USGS Adding a new twist to the controversy over genetically engineered (GE) salmon, the Center for Food Safety (CFS) revealed today that, in recent hearings on transgenic fish, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) knowingly withheld a Federal Biological Opinion by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) prohibiting the use of transgenic salmon in open-water net pens pursuant to the U.S. Endangered Species Act (ESA). “This adds further evidence that in fact GE salmon pose a serious threat to marine environments and is another compelling reason for the FDA not to approve the fish for commercial use,” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director of the Center for Food Safety. “While the FDA applauded the company’s choice of land-based containment as responsible, it never revealed that it is illegal in the U.S. to grow genetically engineered salmon in open-water net pens.” The Biological Opinion and supplemental information, obtained through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request, challenge claims by AquaBounty Technologies, the developer of the GE salmon, that the transgenic fish pose no threat to marine environments. The GE Atlantic salmon under consideration was engineered with growth hormone genes from an unrelated Pacific 



Document Number: 9722
By being able to take the genetic material from one organism and insert it into the permanent genetic code of another, biotechnologists have engineered numerous novel creations, such as potatoes with bacteria genes, “super” pigs with human growth genes, fish with cattle growth genes, tomatoes with flounder genes, and thousands of other plants, animals and insects. At an alarming rate, these creations are now being patented and released into the environment. Currently, up to 40 percent of U.S. corn is genetically engineered as is 80 percent of soybeans. It has been estimated that upwards of 60 percent of processed foods on supermarket shelves–from soda to soup, crackers to condiments–contain genetically engineered ingredients. A number of studies over the past decade have revealed that genetically engineered foods can pose serious risks to humans, domesticated animals, wildlife and the environment. Human health effects can include higher risks of toxicity, allergenicity, antibiotic resistance, immune-suppression and cancer. As for environmental impacts, the use of genetic engineering in agriculture will lead to uncontrolled biological pollution, threatening numerous microbial, plant and animal species with extinction, and the potential contamination of all non-genetically engineered life forms with novel and possibly hazardous genetic material. Despite these long-term and 



Document Number: 1395
Senators for requesting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) halt the approval of the long-shelved AquaBounty transgenic salmon, the first genetically engineered (GE) animal intended for human consumption. Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), and Mike Thompson (D-CA) led 29 Members of the House of Representatives in asking the FDA to halt the approval process of AquaBounty GE salmon in a letter to FDA Commissioner, Margaret Hamburg. Senator Mark Begich (D-AK) led 10 Senators in a similar letter to FDA Commissioner Hamburg. The letters call on the agency to halt approval as well as thoroughly examine and address the serious flaws with FDA’s approval process and include greater public input and scientific data. “The FDA’s hastily completed approval process puts American consumers and the environment at risk. GE salmon could be devastating to fishing and coastal communities, our food source, and already depleted wild salmon populations. The FDA should put the interests and safety of American families and our ocean resources above special interests,” Rep. DeFazio said. The Congressional letters were supported by 53 consumer and environmental groups, commercial and recreational fisheries associations, and food businesses and retailers. Those groups include the Center for Food Safety, Alaska Marine 



Document Number: 2157
(GE) animal intended for human consumption, the AquAdvantage GE salmon, FDA held a public hearing today to discuss whether or not these GE fish should be labeled as such should they be approved. A 60-day public comment period on the labeling issue will be open until November 22, 2010. “This transgenic salmon is the first GE animal intended for food, yet the human health impacts of eating these GE fish are completely unknown,” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director at the Center for Safety (CFS). “These GE fish also pose unacceptable risks to wild salmon and the marine environment.” These “unknowns” were raised repeatedly at yesterday’s Veterinary Medicine Advisory Committee (VMAC) hearing, and the Committee was unable to come to any conclusion as to the safety or efficacy of the GE salmon. The hearing on labeling is premature given that the VMAC has not approved this salmon for human or animal consumption. The public has not been quiet about the possible approval of GE salmon. In fact, over 300 environmental, consumer, health, and animal welfare organizations, along with salmon and fishing groups and associations, food companies, chefs and restaurants signed joint letters to the FDA opposing the approval of AquaBounty’s GE 



Document Number: 3174
along with commercial and recreational fisheries associations and food retailers submitted a joint statement criticizing an announcement this week by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that it will potentially approve the long-shelved AquAdvantage transgenic salmon as the first genetically engineered (GE) animal intended for human consumption The engineered Atlantic salmon being considered was developed by AquaBounty Technologies, which artificially combined growth hormone genes from an unrelated Pacific salmon, (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) with DNA from the anti-freeze genes of an eelpout (Zoarces americanus). This modification causes production of growth-hormone year-round, creating a fish the company claims grows at twice the normal rate. This could allow factory fish farms to crowd fish into pens and still get high production rates. Each year millions of farmed salmon escape from open-water net pens, outcompeting wild populations for resources and straining ecosystems. “We believe any approval of GE salmon would represent a serious threat to the survival of native salmon populations, many of which have already suffered severe declines related to salmon farms and other man-made impacts,” Marianne Cufone, director of Food and Water Watch’s fish program said. If the FDA opens this door, GE fish will likely be among the millions of salmon 



Document Number: 5975
today criticized an announcement by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that it will potentially approve the long-shelved AquaBounty transgenic salmon as the first genetically engineered (GE) animal intended for human consumption. “FDA’s decision to go ahead with this approval process is misguided and dangerous. CFS has been following this issue for many years and our campaign will take all steps needed to halt any approval” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director for the Center for Food Safety. FDA officials today contacted the Center for Food Safety about its upcoming approval process and posted information about potential approval and labeling of the engineered salmon. This process includes public meetings scheduled for September 19-21 as well as a 60-day public comment period until Nov 22, 2010. FDA plans to approve the GE salmon as a “veterinary drug,” a review process conceived before GE products became a reality. If the GE fish is approved, Agency officials are undecided as to whether they will require product labeling. “In its announcement, FDA has yet failed to provide data on the food safety and environmental risks that this GE fish may pose,” said Jaydee Hanson, Policy Analyst for the Center for Food Safety. “This animal 



Document Number: 9383
may pose risks to the environment. The toxins could accumulate to concentrations that may constitute a hazard to nontarget organisms, such as the soil microbiota, beneﬁcial insects, and other animal classes, and may result in the selection and enrichment of toxin-resistant target insects. Conversely, the accumulated toxins could increase the control of target pests. Accumulation is enhanced when the toxins are bound on surface-active particles in the environment (e.g., clays, humic substances) and, thereby, are rendered less accessible for microbial degradation but still retain their toxic activity. The toxins produced by B. thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki (Btk; antilepidopteran), subsp. morrisoni strain tenebrionis (Btt; anticoleopteran), and subsp. israelensis (Bti; antidipteran) bound rapidly on these surface-active particles, persisted in soil and water, and remained larvicidal to the tobacco hornworm (Menduca sexta), the Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata), and a mosquito (Culex pipiens), respectively, which were used as assay species 1.Although the major introduction of the toxins to soil occurs after harvest of a Bt crop, the Cry1Ab protein was released in root exudates from transgenic Bt corn plants throughout their growth in sterile hydroponic culture and in sterile and nonsterile soil 2.The presence of the toxin was demonstrated by SDS-PAGE and conﬁrmed by 



Document Number: 1239
their diets. For centuries, its potent ingredients remained a mystery. Soy's Past Though soy did not land on "Western" dinner plates until nearly the end of the twentieth century, the bean has served as an icon for a counterculture of back-to-the-land types stepping away from post WWII meat and potatoes dinner. But not everyone initially sees soy as a food, much less a drug. Chances are if you mention the word "tofu" to a cattle rancher living in the Midwest, he'll say that's the "cardboard those hippies eat." For others, perhaps those hippies, making and/or eating a block of tofu symbolizes an ideal of treading lightly on the land. This fact is told by the romanticized names on some soy product packaging, "Wildwood," "Living Farms," and "Country Life." Soy Goes Mainstream Now, the little "Yellow Jewel," of the ancient Buddhist monks, has become big business. Of the principle food crops grown in the United States in the last half of the twentieth century, soybean production has increased the most. In fact, production has doubled in the last ten years alone. Nearly 3 billion bushels of soybeans were produced in 1997 compared with 1.5 billion bushels produced in 1987. More than 



Document Number: 4168
disease resistance. The impending need to produce more food is ostensibly a very "noble" cause, particularly for financial analysts who chart the stock markets and closely watch these chemical companies devise new products to meet the partly real and partly hyped demand for increased food supplies. Economists, along with executives of companies, that make agricultural herbicides, know that as plantings increase so will the production of herbicides . Many large companies are now involved in both the planting and chemical aspects of agriculture. For example, Monsanto Company, a known chemical manufacturer, has recently developed engineered technologies for crop seed. In addition to the latest developments in bioengineered foods, they are buying or controlling seed companies in order to market their new technologies. Biotechnology, in their view, promises farmers greater yields with less crop tillage. Tilling the soil less is considered an environmentally benevolent action which decreases the loss of soil and thus precious habitat damage. But is the vastly increased productivity seemingly guaranteed by biotechnology really needed? Two fifths of the world's current food production comes from only 17% of land that is irrigated. The issue may not be food production at all. Many developing countries are producing food for 



Document Number: 3583
on cotton. In mid-summer 1998, just as the last three Mississippi farmers received their settlements from Monsanto for the 1997 bioengineered cotton "failures," farmers in Texas are getting their first impressions of genetically engineered crops. And the reports coming in raise the specter of another year where genetically engineered cotton seed may not hold up to the fierce climate of the West Texas plains. The "high plains" cotton farmers of West Texas boast nearly 4 million acres of cotton yearly, with nearly a million acres planted in and around Lubbock alone. This year, almost three quarters of this acreage has been sown with cotton genetically engineered to tolerate glyphosate herbicide, known by its ironic sounding brand-name, Roundup Ready™. Just as the 1998 cotton season began, unrelenting heat moved into and sat over the plains, decimating particularly the non-irrigated or "dry-land" cotton. Even plants in the 192,000 acres of irrigated cotton fields around Lubbock are struggling. But small farmers in this region are hot under the collar for reasons they believe may have nothing to do with Father Sun. Those who have contacted us believe much of the problem in these fields is concentrated in their new genetically engineered plantings. They 



Document Number: 9121
deviation from conventional food products. Of necessity, when a genetically modified seed is able to replicate and carry its features on the next generation of consumers, it poses special ethical issues both now and in the future. The central public health and ethical questions center on whether engineered changes are sufficiently new enough to pose unanticipated health risks, and if so, do they impact differentially on varying members of the population. If genetically engineered foods differ significantly in terms of adverse health impacts, the skewed distribution could disproportionately burden vulnerable populations, exacerbating health gaps already created by differential access to health care and exposure to toxic substances. For instance, persons with deficient metabolizing or detoxifying systems including children may be unjustly burdened by genetically engineered foods. Some infants and newborns, especially those living in poorer socioeconomic conditions, may have little or no choice but to eat genetically engineered foods. This is because their parentsâ food choices are constrained by poverty or because non-genetically engineered (e.g., organic) foods are unavailable. Are susceptible populations unjustly burdened? Currently in the United States, no mandate exists to label genetically engineered foods, in spite of the fact that 65-75% of the foods sold contain genetically 



Document Number: 8557
products, permitting "discrimination" against such products and potentially fueling "irrational" fears of health risks. Biotechnology proponents assert transgenic food crops are completely equivalent to traditional crops, and hence require no special labeling. Our own research challenges this view because of findings of differences in the composition of transgenic and conventional soybeans. The necessity for labeling and disclosure is further reinforced by industry's greatly accelerated production of transgenic varieties and the absence of sufficient pre-testing or monitoring to determine where and when true differences exist between bioengineered and conventional varieties. The ethic of informed consent and transparency in corporate operations which affect public welfare support the legitimacy of enforcing a "risk status unknown" disclosure on all current transgenic crops as a minimum requirement. However, simply labeling genetically engineered crops provides an inadequate remedy for disclosing genuine risks known or unknown posed by genetically engineered foods. Such risks however small, would affect a considerable number of consumers. Food and Drug Administration Claims rDNA Foods Do Not Warrant Labeling In the 1990's, the commercialization of transgenic crops expanded rapidly from barely 100,000 acres at the beginning of the decade to over 65 million worldwide acres at its end (Robinson, 1998). Public acceptance of 



Document Number: 2000
and accountability. We also aver that respect for life, ensuring a habitable planet, and protecting ecosystems are universally recognized and fundamental human values. For this reason, those altering the genetic integrity of natural species bear the burden of proving their interventions will not jeopardize these values. We also believe in democracy. In democratic societies, any decision to deploy powerful new technologies must be made with full public participation and accountability. To date, our government, international agencies, public universities and biotechnology corporations have neglected these objectives. Therefore we declare: 1) Environmental safety and public health require the systematic study of any transgenically modified living organism over multiple generations before allowing its environmental release or marketing; 2) All proposed products derived from genetic engineering must be shown to contribute to the general welfare of consumers, farmers and society without compromising the viability of traditional agricultural practices, including organic farming; 3) Farmers and agrarian peoples generally who have cultivated, nurtured and developed crops have the right to control their crop materials; 4) Such control includes the right to cultivate indigenous or conventional species using traditional methods, and freely to use or re-use any genetic seed stock; 5) People should have access to all 



Document Number: 2506
lightly, knowingly. - Catherine Keller The capacity to engineer genes generally and the success of biotechnology in particular, is forcing scholars to confront vexing philosophical concepts. For the first time, we have had to take a hard look at the basis of life itself and ask just how and if the alteration of genetic material poses novel ethical or moral problems. Is "life" held within the confines of a genetic sequence? Or do genes merely provide the building blocks of living entities which are then formed and framed by their interaction with nature? Although biotechnology is often the focus of blanket opposition "on principle," such an attack ignores the core question of whether or not molecular biology is strictly a neutral science. While a simple answer is difficult, no one would deny that by the time molecular biology as a science becomes molecular technology, ethical analysis becomes imperative because of scope and scale of its potential impact. Opposition to biotechnology is often couched in phrases such as "we should not be playing God." If molecular biology is critiqued by likening it to divine intervention, then all of biotechnology would be "off limits." Under this rubric, transgene movement should be reserved 



Document Number: 7333
Highways, the plants toss open their blossoms as if one, and release their sweet fragrance into the dewy air. The Kona coffee plants grow in the region's volcanic soils spread over nearly 600 small family farms. The coffee farms, collectives,- and associations successfully produce and supply an internationally recognized, distinctive product that generates a bountiful economy for the Kona area. As I walked along the road near our house attempting to identify the tropical plants - mango, avocado, papaya - an older Hawaiian man called out "looks like snow, huh?" Surprised, I said "uh, yes" at the same time I recognized he was referring to the coffee. "How often does it bloom," I asked. "Just a few days a year" and he put his head down and went back to cleaning his yard. I realized I was experiencing something very special - the blooming of a product supported by small family style farmers steeped in evolutionary and agricultural history. After decades of labor to secure a viable product and economy, the Kona coffee farmers now find themselves protecting their plants not from infestations and invisible blights, but from scientists and policy makers bent on conducting new and potentially dangerous genetic 



Document Number: 512
to the Native Hawaiian creation story. Taro is a plant with a broad, beautiful, nutritious strong leaf shaped like a huge heart. Imagine a completely hypoallergenic, versatile, mineralized, satiating vibrant tuber with unique and starchy richness and the ability to be made into everything from pie, to “burgers” and chips, to a smooth, purple-ish, creamy staple dish called “poi.” Even those who do not have the creation story of the taro in their heritage know that taro, in these islands that we love, is sacred. It is one of the single most well-know, important, and reliable plants in all of Polynesia, and the locals take a deep pride in its profound history. Various names for parts of the taro plant indicate its interwoven history with the Hawaiian people: the place where the stem meets the leaf is called the piko, or navel. The stem is the ha, the breath, and the cluster of shoots (or keiki, meaning children) that surround the mother plant are called an ohana, or family. Here in Hawai'i, the growing and cultivation of the kalo plant is a tradition that stretches back for more than a thousand years. The Hawaiians loved, honored, and cared for kalo 



Document Number: 4750
the issues and concerns raised by the growing of genetically modified foods (“GMOs”). I do not intend to get into an exhaustive discussion of those issues, as I would like to focus my testimony on state and local preemption and its effects. Background: Preemption bills related to GMOs were first introduced in 2005 after four California counties passed measures to regulate GMO usage. To date, fifteen states have passed such "preemption bills" disallowing local governments from regulating GMOs, thus reserving that regulatory authority for the States. An additional six states have introduced preemption bills though they have been defeated for various reasons. Hawaii's GMO preemption bill is very unique. Not only has the author introduced a bill that removes the regulatory authority of local governments, but also, in its reading, Hawaii will become the first and likely only state in the country to preempt itself to the federal government. The only other state to attempt such broad preemption of GMOs to the federal government was Missouri, home to Monsanto Company. Missouri twice introduced such a bill and twice it failed. HB1226 According to the puzzling language of HB 1226, the bill would disallow the agricultural agency from restricting one’s testing, 



Document Number: 3306
manage to make themselves Roundup Ready. The evidence to support thier argument seemed to be that, in over 20 years of worldwide use, there had been no verified evidence of weeds evolving resistance to glyphosate (the key herbicidal ingredient in Roundup).  This success was put down to glyphosate's unique chemical structure and metabolism, its unique mechanism of plant-annihilation, and the lack of residual activity in the soil.  Moreover, even if the weeds did begin to become tolerant, they would still be so weakened by the glyphosate, they wouldn't survive.  Weeds with tricks up their sleeves, such as stacks of duplicated genes to overwhelm the herbicide, were dismissed as “unlikely” (see WEEDS HAVE TRICKS UP THEIR SLEEVES - Archive news, February 2010).Common marestail. Image Wiki CommonsAs early as 2001, the first glyphosate-resistant marestail weeds were noticed: farmers began to find themselves with a problem which hadn't previously been a problem.  Add to this that warnings were already sounding about a reduction (by up to 17%) in rental value of any farmland with uncontrolled weeds, with glyphosate-resistance as the No.1 concern. The manufacturers of Roundup and Roundup Ready seed, however, continued to be dismissive.  In 2003, Monsanto International's technical manager was telling 



Document Number: 3827
all foods on US supermarket shelves contain genetically modified ingredients, including most things bulked up with starches, sugar syrups, vegetable oils, 'protein' in various guises, imitation meat, and a host of additives. Over and above this 70% of processed food, the majority of animal products come from livestock given GM feed.US consumers, we are told have a high degree of faith in the food-safety oversight carried out by their regulatory agencies (the FDA, EPA,and USDA), and are happy to accept GM, even if most of them don't know they're eating it. The oft-repeated basis for this confidence is “We can't argue with the record: no one has been made ill from eating genetically modified foods”.The origin of this sound-byte seems to be the second edition of a booklet entitled “Biotechnology and Food”, prepared for the American Council on Science and Health (ACSH) in 2000. This not-for-profits organization describes itself as a “consumer education consortium” which accepts funding from industry and private foundations “as long no strings (are) attached”. Whistleblowers Stauber and Rampton, however, describe the ACSH as an “industry front group that produces PR ammunition for the food processing and chemical industries”. The main author of the ACSH booklet is 



Document Number: 4842
history of GM agriculture. Any crop all, it seems, can be given the gene to make it resistant to Monsanto's Roundup weedkiller, with the added attraction that the seed can be lucratively linked to the marketing of the herbicide. The sales-pitch for Roundup Ready (RR) seed is simple. The active ingredient is the least unfriendly to the environment of all the weedkillers, it degrades to harmless end-products, and it rapidly becomes inactivated in the soil. Roundup technology benefits the farmer and his yields through cheap and easy weed control. It allows no-till agriculture to the benefit of the soil, and the transgenic protein produced by the GM plant is non-toxic and non-allergenic.The prototype herbicide-tolerant crop was GM soya. Any initial questions about safety were easily dismissed by three published studies, commissioned by Monsanto. These demonstrated that the compositional and feeding value are equivalent to conventional soya and that the novel protein was easily digested.In summary, Roundup ready crops hit the market with all benefit to the farmer, no problem for environment, and human health problems just weren't in the picture at all.The reality, twelve years down the line, is beginning to look a little different.Five years after Roundup Ready soya 



Document Number: 5977
GM proponents. It worried me that they were just talking in generalities, saying it was 'highly unlikely' there was any health risk from GM. That struck me as unscientific; it was like they were presenting the truth from on high to the lesser mortals.”Like many other campaigners, Murrell noticed that as soon as she scratched the surface of the pro-GM hype, there were plenty of unsupported assumptions underneath, but little scientific substance. After she'd done her homework, she realised how easy it is to know more than the 'scientists' who rush to defend GM. She said: “We've rung up scientists who support GM and ask them whether they've read the safety data and many of them haven't”.The reality, as Murrell has now realised, is that her 'GM demystifiers' have the strength of knowledge on their side:  “Our opponents can't defeat us in the world of evidence, science or argument – we've done the research – so they just ignore us.”Murrell notes that scientists seem to have felt a need to tag themselves as 'pro-GM' or anti-GM' whereas “If scientists are worth their salt, they are looking at the evidence.” One scientists who is worth his salt and is looking at 



Document Number: 7993
given repeatedly over some years that other assumptions about the Cry1Ab-toxin are unwarranted, for example:“the evidence for the survival of the Bt toxins in the digestive tract and internal organs is clear-cut” (Pusztai, 2007)antibodies (immune responses) to Cry1Ab were found circulating in the blood of Philippine farm workers exposed to GM maize; this coincided with an unexplained outbreak of respiratory and intestinal disease (Traavik, 2004)the Cry1Ab protein has a greater than 90% homology with the Cry1Ac toxin which is known to be a potent immunogen and can act as a powerful adjuvant to increase immune responses to other toxins (Vázquez-Padron, 1999, 2000)the Bacillus thuringiensis microbes from which Bt-toxins are derived have known homologies with the pathogenic microbe, Bacillus cereus (Vázquez-Padron, 1999)evidence for Bt-toxin 'safety' comes from testing bacterial Bt proteins, not from the Bt-variant protein designed by man and made by plant cells inserted with artificial DNA.GM Freeze is calling for an immediate halt to Bt cultivation and importation until the safety of Bt crops as food and feed has been properly established. Please write to your MP and MEP to:alert them to this new peer-reviewed research showing whole, toxic, Bt proteins from GM crops have been found to have 



Document Number: 3998
with the big brains have hijacked the gene transfer mechanism of their microscopic counterparts to provide human food.But, our cleverness begs a serious question: can Agrobacterium turn the tables, and hijack human cells, transforming them to provide novel food for itself? The question of horizontal gene transfer from GM food into other life-forms has been considered by regulators, albeit half-heartedly. Attention has always focused on antibiotic resistance genes which are created and inserted as a technical trick to identify which cells have been successfully transformed. This problem can be solved by avoiding use of such genes in the first place, or, by removing them post-transformation (both perfectly possible, just less convenient). Early on, the UK Food Standards Agency commissioned a study on the possibility of gene transfer from two common gut microbes into human gut cells, but found no cause for concern. The view of regulators is that we are exposed to DNA from plants, bacteria and viruses all the time in our food, and so GM DNA isn't going to cause any additional problem. However, no one's been factoring in Agrobacterium. Agrobacterium is a specialised plant pathogen. It has the ability to genetically transform many hundreds of plant species 



Document Number: 9695
concern, unaccountably, grew.The emphasis then shifted from educating people about the people in the developing world are dyingGM could be saving lives in the developing worldonly the spoiled and rich are GM refuseniks ...But, people didn't buy that line either, nor GM food. So now education about GM has taken a more practical turn. Once the public their food prices will escalatetheir farmers will struggle to compete in an inevitable GM markettheir economy will be overwhelmed by global competition ...In January 2011, the Oxford Farming Conference (see below) provided a perfect platform for the latest educational drive.The Director of Broom's Barn Research Centre, heavily involved in GM research, told the Conference:  “We need to educate the public, and we need to start by changing the language”.The change in language suggested is the use of the term “vaccinated” or “immunised” instead of “GM” for some applications of the technology.Clearly finding this suggestion interesting, the National Farmers' Union (NFU) ran an on-line poll with the question: “Could public perception of the technology be improved simply by changing theThe astute reader might comment that while a vaccine is an artificial infection designed to stimulate the plant's immune system, inserting artificial DNA to create 



Document Number: 6361
them, and ceremoniously dump them in a biohazard bin where people can see them. The 'GMO Food Dump' campaign has started by targeting one of the main sources of consumer confusion: the large whole-food retailers. Its aim is to stop the shops from misleading their customers by selling GM foods without any label. Americans are showing increasing interest in their food: where it is grown, how it is produced and what it contains. Whole-food shops are capitalising on this. However, campaigners point out that, while their first target, 'Whole Foods Market' in Chicago, claims that most of its suppliers are organic, this translates into only one-third of the products on sale. Also, the “non-GMO Product Verified” programme which the Company founded, covers only own-brand foods. By selling unlabelled GM food, Whole Food Market is tacitly endorsing biotech products and the notion that coexistence is possible, besides failing to respect its customers' right to know. Customers interviewed expressed surprise when they found that Whole Food Market was selling GM foods:  “It's disappointing and disheartening. I feel like Whole Foods has established itself as a community for people who believe in healthy food and I feel like they embody that. So I 



Document Number: 6292
gallons of biofuel a year. the EU Biofuels Directive requires that all member states have a blend of 5.7 percent biofuel in their road transport fuels by 2010. Biofuels are the clean, green, sustainable, oil-saving, pollution-free, climate-friendly saviours of mankind especially in the Developing Worlds. The immediate response to these decisions has been a massive 60 percent rise in the global price of biofuel crops. The media quotes excited Mexican farmers who are able to generate real cash from their land for the first time in living memory as their government finds the will to hand out contracts which guarantee prices and markets, discounts on fertiliser and seed, and use of farm machinery. If you are puzzled about the term 'biofuel' this could be because it refers to several technologies which produce alternative fuels from a variety of sources.First generation biofuels are available now:BIOETHANOL is an alcohol-based fuel produced from fermented sugar or starch. Sugar-cane and maize are the most prominent crops used, but sugar beet, wheat and barley are current options. Bioethanol can be blended with petrol.BIODIESEL is manufactured from vegetable, animal, or waste oil. The most prominent source is palm oil. Biodiesel is usually blended with conventional diesel.BIOGAS 



Document Number: 6220
prepare. Our dependence on oil for food must have been self-evident to all the agricultural supplies industries and governments for generations. The time-scale on which easily-accessed oil would dwindle was worked out years ago. The short history of biofuels is tightly bound to that of GM crops, and both seem to consist of warning after warning. In 2004 and 2005, two American universities published reports on the proposed introduction of biofuels to replace oil. Even without factoring in environmental damage, they concluded that such a course of action would put a serious strain on food supplies and prices, and that the inherent costs of agriculture, processing and transport would yield a net energy deficit.Starting in 2005 with grains, internationally traded food prices have been increasing year on year, and especially sharply since late 2006. This has focused attention on the number of highly vulnerable people on all continents living below the poverty line. By, 2006, the chemical industries were beginning to concentrate on using petroleum ingredients more efficiently. The more alert companies were moving into plant-based, 'infinitely' replaceable source materials. DuPont was already selling corn-based carpets and pouring R&D resources into 'bio-based' materials to manufacture hair-dyes, nail polishes and textile 



Document Number: 9280
line actually look like? A study by the University of Minnesota published in 2006 concluded that bioethanol from maize offered a modest net energy gain of 25% over oil, suggesting a release of 12% less greenhouse gases, while biodiesel from soya offered a more promising 93% net energy gain with 41% reduction in greenhouse gases. The study took into account the direct agricultural, processing and transport expenses and useful by-products, but not environmental damage nor increased demand on land and water. Therefore, when viewing the bigger picture, it concluded that, if America's entire maize and entire soya crops were used to make biofuel, they would contribute less than 3% of current gasoline and diesel usage. This would put a serious strain on food supplies and prices. A second study by Cornell University published in 2005 came to very uncomfortable conclusions. Regarding bioethanol from the various sources:maize requires an input of 29% more fossil-fuel energy than the net energy it can produceswitchgrass fermentation requires an input of 45% more fossil-fuel energy than the net energy it can producewood fermentation requires 57% more fossil fuel energy than the net energy it can produce.Regarding biodiesel from various sources: soya requires 27% more fossil fuel 



Document Number: 4314
Gene-silencing technology developed in Australia to prevent potatoes browning when cut has been licensed by a Canadian biotech company and applied to apples, for sale in America. The aim of the ever-white apple is to reduce processing costs and make apples more amenable to producers of ready-meals and children's lunch-boxes. As ever with GM, the biggest issue is safety. As the Center for Food Safety said: “Scientists have been saying they're only turning one thing off (the enzyme responsible for browning), but that switch is connected to another switch and another switch. You can't just do one thing to nature. It's nice to think so, but it just doesn't work that way.” And besides any side-effects the silencing of a natural gene might produce, a botox apple is one whose age you'll never be sure of: would you feed it to your child? Fortunately, the approval process for the stay-fresh apple is likely to take years, and it's uncertain consumers anywhere will accept them (see Another GM apple in the pipeline is a red-fleshed, 'healthy' fruit with increased anti-oxidants. This has been under development by New Zealand scientists over the last 10 years, and at a cost of millions of tax-payers 



Document Number: 2353
the bees gather their food.Two forms of colony collapse are being seen. One involves “piles of dead bees at the entrance of hives”, the other involves the sudden disappearance of adult bees from the hive, leaving behind intact food stores and broods, and is referred to as 'Colony Collapse Disorder'. The first problem suggests the bees are being directly exposed to a lethal toxin. The second problem suggests foraging bees have become disoriented by damage to their nervous system and have been unable to find their way back to the hive.Bayer CropScience, which is a major global supplier of suspect, 'neonicotinoid', insecticides insists that: “Extensive internal and international scientific studies have confirmed that (the insecticide) does not present a hazard to bees.” The Company may well be telling the truth.The scientific studies cited as safety assessments of the toxins look only at the lethal dose of an isolated substance given to healthy bees. Neonicotinoids and Bt-toxins tested this way show no adverse effect. Unable to identify any single causative agent for CCD, the US Department of Agriculture, has finally begun long-overdue studies of the interactions between pesticides and bee pathogens. This is a good start, but also needs to be extended 



Document Number: 6849
the first organ likely to react to any dietary allergens or other toxins, or a novel microbial flora induced by the diet. Previously, Pusztai cited four published studies firmly establishing the ability of the Bt toxin generated by MON810 maize to stimulate and modulate the systemic and mucosal immune systems in mammals. He also points out that the evidence for the survival of Bt toxins in the mammalian digestive tract and internal organs is clear-cut. This picture was enlarged by published evidence from other laboratories which show that the Bt toxin in MON810 binds to the intestinal wall of mice, and that MON810 has increased levels of a known allergenic protein. All these pieces of evidence are pointing to a risk of adverse reactions from consuming this GM maize. first published on GM-free Scotland in December 2008Arpad Pusztai Affidavit 30.08.07 in Toxicity of Bt crops – summary of research worldwide, GM Watch, 10.01.08Aubergine is a widely-eaten traditional food in India.A Bt-containing aubergine created for the Indian market has been found to have many unexpected and inexplicable qualities. For example, it has 15% fewer calories and a different alkaloid content.Laboratory rats fed the Bt aubergine had diarrhoea, and reduced liver size. which 



Document Number: 6679
Bt-toxin on soil health, with particular reference to the soil fungi which play a vital role in soil fertility and plant nutrition. The research identified two strains of Bt crop which had the ability to reduce fungal colonisation of root systems. The finding was supported by a previous study demonstrating that litter decomposition, which is dependent on fungal colonisation, was slower in Bt crop material.A reduced activity of essential fungi in the soil has many ominous implications. The biotech industry has been able to make much of the fact that Bt maize is consistently found to have significantly reduced levels of mycotoxins. Mycotoxins are produced by the fungus, Fusarium. There is routine assessment of the presence of mycotoxins in maize because some of them can pose real health problems for humans and livestock: they can be lethal, especially to horses and swine, they have been linked to birth defects and cancer, and some forms have even been considered for use in chemical warfare. The lower levels of mycotoxins in Bt maize is a plus for the GM crops in terms of consumer safety. However, the bigger picture may not be so rosy.The lower mycotoxin levels in Bt maize have generally 



Document Number: 4769
not just DNA. Most artificial DNA constructs to date have been copied from bacterial genomes, and multiplied up in a second species of bacterium before being inserted into plant cells. However, plants won't willingly generate a bacterial protein. Genetic engineers found they had to alter their artificial DNA considerably. For example, they have to make the 'copied', DNA chemically plant-like, and often have to trim it down to bare essentials to reduce its interference with the plant's physiology. The novel gene will not do anything unless it is switched on, and so a viral DNA 'promoter', powerful enough to force gene expression in any genomic environment, is routinely added on. Finally, the engineered construct has to be attached to a 'transfer' DNA sequence at one end to stick it into place. To identify whether or not a cell has been successfully transformed, a 'marker' gene (often an antibiotic-resistance gene) is attached to the other end. Once these tricks of the genetic engineering trade had been developed, industry homed in on two, single-gene, traits for commercial use: crops which shrug off herbicides, and crops which destroy their own insect pests. The assumption that herbicide-tolerant plants remain unharmed by the herbicide they're 



Document Number: 3236
which has had two Bt genes inserted, over-use of pesticides, failure to manage the infected crop residues and unopened bolls after harvest, poor tillage and inadequate grazing of cattle on the GM stubble, and previous illegal planting of unsuitable Bt cotton crops.” (Up until that point, Bt cotton had been a runaway success story in India. Before GM, widespread and regular outbreaks of bollworm infestation had led to a steady increase in pesticide applications along with increasing cost of production. Between 2002 when commercial Bt cotton cultivation started in India and 2008, pesticide applications dropped by almost 50% principally due to the reduction in bollworm, and productivity jumped from 302 to 567 kg/ha. For this triumph to continue, it's important that the grubs remain susceptible to the Bt toxin. Recent research has suggested that the emergence of new Bt-resistant insects could just be a matter of time. One prime reason for the evolution of Bt-munching insects was not mentioned by Monsanto. It's now established that there's a considerable variation in the quantity of Bt produced in different parts of the plant and at different times during the growing season: exposure to low levels of any toxin is a guaranteed way 



Document Number: 4686
(Indian) states where cotton is grown. To date, no insect resistance to Cry1Ac has been confirmed outside the four districts in Gujarat.”'Bollguard' cotton is a GM variety developed by Monsanto. 'Bollguard' has been transfected with a variant of a gene copied from the soil bacterium, Bacillus thuringienses or 'Bt'. The toxic protein generated by the transgene kills a specific insect pest, pink bollworm. The Company was quick to lay the blame for the emergence of resistance on Indian farmers and regulators. Apparently, the pink bollworm resistance problem is due to farmer ignorance: failure to plant non-Bt crop refuges, failure to procure non-Bt seed for the refuges, failure to scout the crop for pest emergence, failure to switch to Monsanto's Bollguard II which has had two Bt genes inserted, over-use of pesticides, failure to manage the infected crop residues and unopened bolls after harvest, poor tillage and inadequate grazing of cattle on the GM stubble, and previous illegal planting of unsuitable Bt cotton crops. Monsanto's answer seems to be to advise farmers to buy its Bollguard II cotton seed, and learn how to farm biotech-style. Anti-GM voices in India are pointing out a number of more fundamental issues. “The shortcoming of 



Document Number: 2243
This 'clean', 'green', 'renewable', 'sustainable' economy of the future will be based on biomass from agricultural crops, forests and algae. Even to those unversed in science, this alternative to fossil fuels is quite clearly no more sustainable than our current energy source. It's simply dependent on other finite natural resources which are already limiting: suitable land area, soil nutrients, and fresh water.  The United Nations has so far failed to act on the question of long-term sustainability. It has put in place a fancy global scheme which amounts to business-as-usual under a regulatory umbrella of 'controlled' greenhouse gas emissions.The scheme is based on a novel global currency called 'carbon credits' which are traded within approved Clean Development Mechanisms (CDM). Effectively, any industry can carry on polluting the world as much as it wants, providing it has 'carbon credits' derived from reducing, avoiding or sequestering carbon produced elsewhere. This heads-I-win-tails-you-loose strategy is being abused to the point of farce.Big business, which is never short of cash, need do nothing beyond paying out for carbon credits which leaves less for everyone else, or paying to fund CDM projects in the developing world. That way, the have-nots of the South are forced to 



Document Number: 4991
upon to reel off messenger molecules of RNA which trotted out into the cell, where they ordered the production of specific proteins. In this scheme, each gene was an active stretch of DNA coding for its own protein, while the rest was inert padding. In food, the model predicted that all DNA was quickly broken down by the digestive processes, while RNA was so unstable it would disappear long before it got that far.This model was, and remains, that on which GM crops are based and on which their safety-testing has been formatted ever since.Unfortunately, the model is becoming increasingly shaky: genes are now appreciated as variable parts of a fluid system of DNA which can adjust its final expression minutely; 'junk' DNA is highly active and sends out RNA messengers of its own which exert a finely-tuned control over what happens in the cell; in food, DNA can survive intact through a large part of the gastrointestinal tract; and in the organism, RNA it seems can sally forth in stabilised forms. Both RNA and DNA are now suspected to have a function outside of the cell: a function which may be vital to both cellular communication and the coherent 



Document Number: 3192
artificial DNA must operate. Both act to alter the carefully manufactured DNA cassette, and once destabilised, anything can happen. The DNA prepared for insertion into cells typically consists of a gene designed to generate the required protein with a 'promoter' at the front end and a 'terminator' at the rear end. The 'promoter' is vital because the artificial gene, outside any natural context to trigger its activity, simply won't do anything: the promoter functions as an independent 'ON' plus 'full-throttle ahead' switch, to make the transgene generate maximum amounts of the required protein. The 'terminator' is vital because it tells the gene where it ends: without it, the DNA downstream from the gene will become part of it and alter the protein produced, for example, to add bits on, remove or rearrange sections, or to change its three-dimensional structure (on which protein function depends).This functional DNA unit is commonly sandwiched between two 'sticky ends' of DNA designed to enable the whole construct to invade and attach itself to the host genome.Basic problem number one: DNA sequences constructed very easily in a test-tube will tend to carry on, just as easily, re-constructing themselves. This tendency is exacerbated by many factors. For 



Document Number: 6443
in imported animal feed. To soften the blow, the suggested new level of tolerance will be limited to GM feed material already authorised for commercialisation in a third country and for which an authorisation procedure is pending in the EU, or, for which a previous EU authorisation has expired. It's easy to understand why the Commission was wavering. The change ignores majority public opinion (currently standing at 61% against encouraging GM), and risks undermining public trust in the system which previously provided clear protection for consumers and the food industry. What's not immediately clear is why the EC felt it necessary to propose the change in the first place. Realistic estimates of the potential problem from gene contamination had never been “bloody” enough to persuade politicians to back such a fundamental change in EU law. Not bloody enough that is, until the figures were replaced by another report based on an extreme, worst-case, scenario. This new report looked at what the short-term financial impact would be if all soya feed and food products were found to be contaminated with unapproved GM so that all imports from the US had to be rejected. It arrived the frightening figure of 1.7 billion 



Document Number: 5593
best, purest and most natural in the world. That's because Scotland has resisted pressure from international forces to join America on the slippery slope its leaders have chosen. America's model food system is not one to be emulated: it is over-centralized, over-industrialised, over-controlled by a handful of companies, over-reliant on monocultures, on pesticides, on chemicals fertilizers, on chemical additives, on factory farms, on government subsidies, on machines and on fossil fuels, with GMOs shoring up all of it. If avoiding standardised, nutrient-depleted, aged, GM food is 'elitist' then we should all be proud to be called so. But, misleading consumers? Definitely not. Consumers are paying for non-elite food with their health. The survival of the current global food system depends upon consumer ignorance. Once people know what they're actually eating, and know what non-elite food is doing to their bodies, and realise there are alternatives, they will no longer buy it. As Schlosser says:“The cheapness of today's industrial food is an illusion, and the real cost is too high to pay.”The links between the agricultural system, freshly prepared food, and health are too intimate to ignore. However, there's another factor in this equation which shouldn't be left out. Housing policy 



Document Number: 8766
the Inter-American Development Bank, the World Bank and carbon emissions trading markets. Add to this that billions of dollars are being poured into biofuel research by industry, in particular Big Oil, Big Biotech and their associates in the car and energy business. The first generation biofuel is ethanol produced from corn. US subsidies amounting to £7.7 billion in 2009 have driven 41 percent of the American corn crop and 15 percent of the global corn crop into combustion engines. Ethanol sales continue to climb in the US and are expected to reach nearly 4 billion gallons (53 billion litres) in 2011, about 8 per cent of the country's total fuel consumption. Federal law requires that ethanol production in the USA shall climb to 35 billion gallons per year by 2022.In the early days, even environmentalists welcomed the advent of biofuels as an alternative to oil. However, the shiny image of biofuels as a 'green' answer to peak oil and our energy needs of the future, is fast becoming tarnished. And the problems are inherent and insurmountable.At the end of 2010, the US politician most influential in promoting the ethanolic corn initiative, Al Gore, dropped a bombshell. He said “First generation 



Document Number: 1165
beings seem to be “playing with nature” all the time. One way to judge these questions, is to have look at what genetic engineers actually put into your food. The GM oilseed rape which was trialled during the Farm Scale Evaluations in Scotland had been transformed with a DNA construct made up from something like this (if your brain starts going into overload reading this, just skip to THE END):a piece of bacterial DNA for sticking one end of the construct into the host genome, joined toa piece of man-made DNA for nothing, joined toa piece of bacterial DNA for telling an anti-weedkiller gene (see two below) where it stops, joined toa piece of man-made DNA for nothing, joined toa piece of bacterial DNA which is an anti-weedkiller gene, joined toa piece of plant DNA for telling the anti-weedkiller DNA to switch itself on only in green tissues, joined toa piece of man-made DNA for nothing, joined toa piece of bacterial DNA for telling a tissue-dissolving gene (see two below) where it stops, joined toanother piece of bacterial DNA (from a different bacterium) for telling a tissue-dissolving (see one below) where it stops, joined toa piece of bacterial DNA which 



Document Number: 4346
major crops, rice, wheat and maize being produced that are drought resistant, flood resistant, saline resistant and disease resistant, which could transform Africa's ability to feed its people ... Some products have emerged, for example, from South Africa. They are now planting drought resistant crops that have increased the yield by 30% ... so you can actually save millions of people from starvation by these techniques ...”“... I could give you one example and this is the use of inter-crop planting in Africa which has increased grain yields already around Lake Victoria very substantially. And this is done by discovering what the pheromone is in the root of the grain plant that attracts root borers and destroys them. And if you snip that gene into the grass so that the grass attracts root borers, the root borer does not feed well on the grass and dies. You interplant the grass with the grain and it turns out the crops yield goes up 40-50%. Very big advantage.” Not only can food be made safer by “snipping out” allergenic proteins, but GM will be able to produce “more crop per drop” of water to allow them to thrive in drier conditions. These 



Document Number: 2069
disease of wild birds, it occasionally infects poultry flocks in which it can spread like wildfire.  Controls, such as vaccination and bio-security measures, are complicated by the nature of the virus which is not a single type of virus, but exists in many subtypes and, like all flu, is an ever-evolving “master of mutability”. Fears of a major outbreak of the virus in the UK in 2006 came after a swan, found dead off the coast of Fife, was discovered to be infected with H5N1.  The virus did not cross any species barriers in Scotland and the feared pandemic did not happen. According to World Health Organisation data, there have been a total of 306 deaths world-wide from H5N1 since 2003. Clearly, there have not so far been a great number of fatalities, but scientists still fear that H5N1 in domestic fowl will create a bridge to the emergence of a human strain of the virus which could kill millions of people. The new genetic trick to beat bird-flu doesn't use a gene as such, but uses DNA which generates a small 'RNA' mirror of itself.  The novel RNA interferes with the viral enzyme which the pathogen uses to replicate 



Document Number: 6126
as 'Foresight' in reference to the thinktank which produced it).This “mammoth” Report was the culmination of two years of study involving 400 scientists from 34 countries.While recognising that no single solution exists, the Report stresses that it is critical to achieve increased yields by “sustainable intensification” in the developing world. To achieve this, it says, will require the spread of existing knowledge and technology.The title of 'Global Food and Farming Futures', coupled to “400 scientists” and “34 countries” all suggest a very serious international search for the best way forward to provide a sustainable food supply for everyone in the world.Indeed, those involved in the report say all the right things on the subject: the authors call for “food and agriculture to move up the political agenda and be coordinated with efforts to tackle the impact of climate change, the supply of water and energy and the loss of farm land”, and the bottom line is that “transformation on the scale of the industrial revolution” is neededScratch the surface, however, and a different picture begins to emerge.The 'Global Food and Farming Futures' Report came from the Department for Business Innovation (BIS), and was co-commissioned by the Department of the Environment 



Document Number: 1687
with the big brains have hijacked the gene transfer mechanism of their microscopic counterparts to provide human food. But, our cleverness begs a serious question: can Agrobacterium turn the tables, and hijack human cells, transforming them to provide novel food for itself? The question of horizontal gene transfer (see SCIENCE - ) from GM food into other life-forms has been considered by regulators, albeit half-heartedly. Attention has always focused on antibiotic resistance genes which are created and inserted as a technical trick to identify which cells have been successfully transformed. This problem can be solved by avoiding use of such genes in the first place, or, by removing them post-transformation (both perfectly possible, just less convenient). Early on, the UK Food Standards Agency commissioned a study on the possibility of gene transfer from two common gut microbes into human gut cells, but found no cause for concern. The view of regulators is that we are exposed to DNA from plants, bacteria and viruses all the time in our food, and so GM DNA isn't going to cause any additional problem. However, no one's been factoring in Agrobacterium. Agrobacterium is a specialised plant pathogen. It has the ability to genetically transform 



Document Number: 8192
can be breached. Stress and inflammation can make different areas of the barrier leaky. This allows harmful materials to pass through and disturb the function of associated areas of the brain. Experiments using laboratory mice are gradually revealing unexpected interactions between the immune system and the brain. Although the exact mechanisms and responses will be somewhat different in humans, the principle is likely to be very much the same. The picture emerging from the research is that stress, infections, toxins, allergens and obesity all trigger immune system responses. Such responses include the production of antibodies which can bind to cells (including neurones), the activation of immune-system cells, and the release of cell signaling molecules for cell communication. Obesity has a special role in these processes because fat-tissue forms the precursors of cell-signaling molecules. Immune-system responses in turn trigger inflammation which makes the blood-brain barrier leaky, and potentially exposes the brain cells to all those same immune-system factors. The resulting brain disturbances indicated by the experiments so far include: impaired learning and memory, obsessive-compulsive disorder, depression, anxiety and suspicion, impulsiveness, and development of nervous tics. In a nutshell, things which make you physically ill can also make you mentally ill. On 



Document Number: 6374
grow GM crops on any scale, has steadily reduced the area devoted to biotech crops. The 2010 area was 15% smaller than in 2008. The next biggest GM player, the Czech Republic, has also steadily reduced its GM acreage by 42% over two years. Romania, which was once the biggest GM grower in Europe, has reduced its GM crop area by a whopping 87%. This is highly significant because in 2005 when the country was trying to join the European Union, it was considered by the US ambassador as a “unique ... pioneer of biotechnology”, which could be helped to enter the EU “with a well-developed biotechnology sector and an educated population which understands the merits of biotechnology.” In other words, Romania was being groomed to be a US Trojan horse to force GM crops into Europe. Wikileaks has revealed that pressure from America extended to manipulating Romania's National Consumer Protection Agency, its media, and even some NGOs into supporting a GMO trust-inducing programme with the aim of exposing the population to “positive messages regarding GMOs”. US intervention included judicious use of GM-friendly parliamentarians, the establishment of a new biotech lobby group, a traveling senator making speeches on the need 



Document Number: 5144
crops of corn field. image on Flickr by Lars Ploughman Lots of important things have been going on around Europe. The Eurobarometer on Biotechnology showed that public opposition to GM has risen from 58% in 2007 to 61%. Notably, in Spain which is known to be the most pro-GM country in Europe, and which has been growing GM crops commercially for some years, support for GM food fell by 20%. Planting of GM maize in Spain continued to decline, and according to seed producers, reached its smallest area since 2006. In Portugal, GM maize cultivation was reported by the agriculture ministry to be down more than 6%. The European Patent Office is still trying to find a common-sense path to patents on life. However, it did issue an opinion that methods for conventional breeding of plants and animals cannot be considered as a technical process and cannot, therefore, be covered by patents. This decision related to one aspect of a patent application for a conventionally-bred broccoli. The broccoli may still be considered patentable on other grounds, but at least its a step in the right direction. Germany's top court opened up an important fresh approach to liability when it confirmed 



Document Number: 3730
pesticides (present in all these crops) actually end up inside the body of the consumer.The short answer to this question is yes: four out of the five commonest GM-linked pesticides tested were found to be circulating in the blood.Glyphosate and glufosinate herbicides, which are accumulated by crops genetically transformed to tolerate them, end up inside us. Glufosinate's major metabolite (3-methylphosphinicopropionic acid, '3-MPPA') ends up inside us. At least one common 'Bt' toxin generated by crops genetically transformed to generate their own insecticide ends up inside us. (Glyphosate's major metabolite, AMPA, was not detected in any subject).The glufosinate metabolite (3-MPPA) and Bt toxin were detected not only in healthy pregnant and non-pregnant women, but in the babies of the pregnant women just after birth.Dietary levels of GM were not ascertainable, but the subjects lived in Quebec where the food on sale comes from primarily from Quebec itself plus elsewhere in Canada and from America, all of which are areas of widespread GM crop production.Both glyphosate and glufosinate have been associated with foetal developmental abnormalities in experiments on rat- and non-mammalian models (see, for example, GM Time Bomb - Roundup causes birth defects in humansThe single Bt protein tested was 'Cry1Ab' which 



Document Number: 3632
force, effectively setting the threshold in accordance with the wishes of industry. The regulation allows for the marketing of food as organic and unlabelled providing any GM contamination is below 0.9% and “adventitious or technically unavoidable”. “By doing so, it rides roughshod over the wishes of consumers and the burgeoning organic food industry.” (Collins) The question of how liability for damages arising from gene contamination will be handled in Europe remains open. However, the precedents set by the cases of Schmeiser and of Hoffman in the Canadian system of justice do not bode well. Percy Schmeiser was a successful farmer in Saskatchewan who grew a 1000 acre crop of canola (oilseed rape). He did not farm organically but kept his use of herbicides to a minimum. Over the years he had developed his own strain of canola by means of selecting seed from his harvest and he had no wish to plant the Monsanto Roundup Ready, GM, variety. In 1997, Schmeiser's crop was contaminated by the growth of Roundup Ready canola. Initially, Monsanto claimed that he had illicitly procured and planted its product. This claim was subsequently dropped. The most likely source of the intrusion of these plants onto his 



Document Number: 5116
that soya beans themselves are rarely eaten as beans: they don't taste very nice and both animals and humans find them difficult to digest. They're routinely processed into a host of “food-like substances” (Pollan). Before they get anywhere near your plate, soya beans will have received some or all of the following treatments: multiple heat-treatments, pressure, cracking and crushing, chemical extractions, treatment with acids, alkalis and enzymes, bleaching, addition of preservatives, supplements, colouring and flavouring, and finally molding into some shape to make it seem to be something it's not. All this doesn't sound a very good way to produce wholesome food.As you might expect, soya indeed presents several health issues. However, add in GM soya and these health concerns are raised to a whole new level. In animal feeding experiments comparing GM-soya with non-GM-soya, seven out of twelve studies have so far indicated problems in the GM-fed group.Classic 90-day feeding trials, which are the standard safety test for foods, do not reveal any problems. However, the more sophisticated measurement techniques now available to scientists are increasingly demonstrating promisis of chronic toxicity.Vulnerable individuals such as the young, the elderly, or those whose diet or health is poor are especially at 



Document Number: 8683
a novel wheat are now ready for field testing in the UK. The Department of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) has received an application from Rothamsted Research to carry out a two-year field trial of aphid-resistant GM wheat, to run during 2012 and 2013. Aphids are sap-sucking insects which weaken the plants they are feeding on, and can transmit disease. They rapidly form dense colonies on their host plants due to their ability to produce large numbers of daughters without sexual reproduction. In a natural ecosystem, aphid numbers are controlled by insect predators and parasites. The mechanisms by which aphids find their host plants to start with, and by which plants defend themselves against aphids, and by which aphids defend themselves against their enemies, all seem to be based on volatile chemicals. On release, these chemicals become gaseous and their presence in the air acts as a signal. Both plants and aphids produce such signals. Genetic engineers plan to use a GM version of this mechanism to protect wheat against aphids. Because wheat has an existing metabolic pathway which can be tweaked to divert it into EBF production, a single gene has been concocted which produces a single 



Document Number: 5634
is popular, inexpensive and, unlike the current drugs on the market to combat age-related nerve degeneration and cancer, has no side-effects.Newcastle University's Medicinal Plant Research Centre has been investigating the properties of tea, both green (unfermented) and black (fermented), for several years. Previously, it had discovered that tea contains substances which protect against neurotransmitter break-down and protein deposition, both of which are characteristic of brain cells in sufferers of dementia. Some experiments suggested that green tea in particular could continue to exert its protective effect for as much as a week after treatment. Scientists have long been aware that tea has high levels of very diverse 'polyphenol' phytonutrients, and anti-oxidants such as the amino-acid, theonine (which is also calming and enhances flavour). These have been shown to have health benefits. Tea, as we drink, it is an extraction of such phytonutrients plus a great many other interacting substances made by living plants. Once we have digested the tea, the phytonutrients are broken down into an even more diverse array of interacting substances. Aware that some vital nutrients identifiable in a food or drink may no longer be available to the body after digestion, the Newcastle researchers designed experiments using tea 



Document Number: 2567
“well suited for use in bottled vegetable oil, salad dressings, margarine and other similar food products for which commodity soybean oil is used”. Clearly, it's intended for widespread use in most processed foods and by caterers. It's also “well suited for industrial applications”, such as lubrication and biodiesel. MON 87705 has been transformed with a DNA sequence to perform three novel functions. One is the customary tolerance to Roundup herbicide which comes from a bacterial gene linked to DNA to activate it in the green parts of the plant. The other two work together to cause oleic acid to accumulate. These are re-jigged soya DNA sequences which generate factors to alter the plant's fat metabolism: one of these factors blocks the enzyme which would normally channel oleic acid away from its site of production to elsewhere in the cell for further processing; the other factor suppresses the normal onward conversion of oleic acid to other fatty acids. These factors are linked to DNA which activates them in the seed. Between them, the two blocking mechanisms cause the GM soyabeans accumulate a huge and unnatural amount of oleic acid. The knock-on effect is that very little linoleic acid and very little 



Document Number: 4134
of their crops. At present it's a headache for regulators because pest-resistant GM plants popping up in conventional 'refuge' crops upset their their carefully dictated pest-resistance management strategies. The possibility that it could cause something more than just a headache if the roving man-made genes generate drugs, industrial chemicals, allergens or other toxins in unexpected places is being studiously ignored. Regulatory consideration of gene flow has always focused on 'outcrossing', the movement of pollen out of the GM field and into conventional plants in other fields. Some of the seed from the conventional plants will then be GM and will give rise to 'adventitious' GM plants in the next generation from which more gene pollution will spread. Depending on the plant, outcrossing can be caused by vectors such as wind and insects, neither of which can be controlled. To reduce the likelihood of this gene pollution, regulators have specified separation distances between GM and conventional crops which measurements have shown should make the level of outcrossing negligible. In crops which tend to be self-pollinating, such as cotton, these defined separation distances can be very small. Indeed, tests have shown that pollen-mediated transgene flow in from Bt cotton rarely exceeds 1% 



Document Number: 9385
has landed in. Safety regulations demand disclosure of this information, plus tests of the toxicity and allergenicity of some version similar to the novel protein, and assurances that the engineered DNA hasn't landed in one of the plant's own genes. Consider the nature of genes. Real genes. Not the neat constructs assembled by genetic engineers. Not a chunk of coding-DNA which reels off RNA-instructions for protein-manufacture in the cell, and has a start-signal at the beginning and a stop signal at the end. Real genes. The kind that keep living organisms alive and thriving and adaptable. Real coding-DNA, the gene which tells the cell how to make a protein, is more likely to exist in bits separated by non-coding-DNA, and the bits may even be in different parts of the genome. The coding sequences for different proteins can overlap. The start and stop signals can be anywhere: inside the gene or scattered elsewhere in the genome. The intelligence of life doesn't need genes in neat packages, it needs fluid genes which can be adapted for whatever purpose is required.The coding-DNA, so closely studied by genetic engineers, doesn't form a significant part of the genome: only a tiny percentage comprises coding 



Document Number: 63
posed by costly restrictions and requirements could now be safely “modified”. The team argued that we now have “long-accepted” breeding methods, “two decades” of “experience”, an “expanding knowledge of the plant genome,” and indications that the “genetic engineering process itself presents little potential for (unidentified) unexpected consequences”. Therefore, it was reasoned that regulatory oversight need only focus on standard agricultural practice in use plus the nature of the introduced genes. No doubt stimulated by the above paper's claim that GM crops face a “daunting” array of regulatory requirements in a country (the USA) where the safety testing is, in fact, largely voluntary, David Schubert, a Professor of Cellular Neurobiology in the Salk Institute in California, was moved to submit a strong rebuke to it which was published in July 2005.Schubert pointed out that the use of chemicals and radiation to generate random mutations in crop plants, which is often cited as a reason why genetic transformation is just an extension of conventional breeding, has been outmoded for about half a century. Modern plant breeds are produced by merging whole chromosomes of diverse plants and, therefore, have sets of genes which are still maintained within their natural context. In other words, 



Document Number: 7240
been “duped” into cultivating GM cotton. Besides being given inadequate information on the identity and quality of the seed, the company gave false promises of high yields and low pesticide use. The farmers' evidence included:Bt cotton seeds were found to be good for an initial boost in production for one or two years, after which there was consistent failureThere were large scale losses of Bt crops in a good number of farms due to the pods failing to mature and break open naturally, and instances of the plants starting to die off before providing any yield.When farmers chose to revert to traditional cotton or other crops, the soil required restoration at considerable cost before profitable cultivation was possibleFarm workers suffered severe, non-healing, skin irritations and disease, bronchial and other health problems.Cattle grazed on cotton residues, as is customary, developed health problems including diarrhoea, and diseases which veterinarians were unable diagnose. There were increases in livestock mortality, abortion, and infertility rates.Pests increased in the neighbourhood of Bt cotton.The farmers also noted how GM cotton was destroying their heritage. Previously excellent local varieties of traditional seed have, essentially, been lost. Government and seed agencies have not taken steps to maintain this supply 



Document Number: 2565
living organisms, organised by Nature's intelligence to work in concert. Our bodies, too, are living matter and are a unique product of the intelligence of Nature. You are what you eat: to maintain the intelligence in your body, you need to eat intelligent food grown in intelligent soil. Michael Pollan describes most of what we now eat as 'food-like substances'. You are what you eat, so presumably eating these gives you a body-like body. An intelligent body is a stable, coherent whole. Can a body-like body run itself intelligently, or does it fall apart? Food-like substances are made in a factory. Some of their constituents may once have been 'food' but after the machines and added chemicals have done their bit, the results may say 'food' on the label, and may even look like 'food', but they are nothing like what your body recognizes as food. The number of added E-numbers, artificial vitamins and things with long chemical names, all disguising the lack of food actually present, should give you a clue: food-like substances have lost their intelligence. Can a body made of them maintain its own intelligence? Pollan's disturbing views on 'food' have plenty of scientific and documentary evidence 



Document Number: 4536
defined criteria on the protection of wild-life, responsible pesticide use, and workers' rights. The prime motivation of the supporters of the RTRS is to promote the use of soya food products and soya-based biofuels. Its members include many multinational corporations such as Monsanto, Syngenta, Cargill (grain suppliers), Shell and BP, all of which have an alarming history of human rights and environmental violations. They also have a history of developing and promoting GM crops, and have managed to persuade the world that GM soya is 'responsible'. Because GM soya is designed to be doused in Roundup, broad-spectrum herbicide, and because the emergence of Roundup-resistant weeds has meant that the amount of the chemical used steadily increases year-on-year, GM soya cannot ever be part of a scheme to 'protect wild-life', nor of 'responsible pesticide use'. Biotech soya has also had a huge role in the clearance of forests to make way for GM monocultures, and in the eviction of small-holders from their land: 'sustainable' and 'workers' rights' are not compatible with this level of environmental and social destruction. The knock-on effects of GM soya include the bankrupting of small farmers in the face of large-scale monocultures, depriving farmers of access to 



Document Number: 61
with a gene from a bean (with no history of being allergenic) caused the peas to produce a bean protein as intended (with no history of being allergenic) and also created a GM pea which not only induced allergic reactions to the pea itself, but also induced allergic reactions to proteins in other foods.MADGE was further concerned to learn that there is no certain way to test GM foods for allergens. The tests carried out on the GM peas are not routinely done. Assessment of allergenicity usually involves looking at the history of safe use of the organisms involved, and comparing the chemical structure of the novel protein with known allergens. As the peas with the bean gene proved, these assessments are not nearly enough.Moreover, even if warning signs are seen during the assessment of the transgenic product, there is no guarantee that regulators will take action. For example, a gene commonly inserted in approved herbicide-tolerant crops to prevent the applied weed-killer accumulating in the plant has been recognised as potentially cross-reactive with a common allergen, red shell-fish (prawns, shrimp, lobster).In light of these findings, MADGE undertook a collation of historical statistics on the incidence of adverse reactions to food 



Document Number: 3674
to BASF's potato warehouse. (Find out more They are particularly incensed that their government has has been openly critical of the weaknesses in the current EU GMO regulations and has asked for them to be strengthened, but at the same time has not taken any action to prevent Amflora from being cultivated in Sweden. The activists are concerned that Amflora has been approved without sufficient independent studies, without an environmental risk assessment, without toxicity studies for animals or humans, and that the presence of an antibiotic resistance marker gene was simply ignored. Although the GM potato is intended for industrial starch production, it has been approved in food and feed at low levels (up to 0.9%). The antibiotic-resistance marker gene contained in Amflora has been defined by the World Health Organisation as of “critical importance” in fighting tuberculosis and other serious diseases. Elsewhere in Europe, Hungary (since joined by Austria, Luxembourg, Poland and France) has already taken the EU Commission to the European Court of justice. Greenpeace Austria, together with Justice and Environment, and other NGOs are also taking legal action in the European Court of Justice to end the approval of the GM potatoes. Several countries have already forbidden 



Document Number: 8871
the major incentive for cloning animals is that the procedure enables genetic transformation.The current method of cloning involves transplanting the nucleus of a cell from an adult or from a developing embryo into a mature egg that has had its nucleus removed. The reconstituted eggs are activated to develop, and the resultant embryos are implanted into surrogate mothers.During cloning of non-GM animals, the survival rate is, at most, 10 per cent of the embryos selected for implantation (in terms of the total embryos prepared, this falls to 1 per cent). Genetic modification will reduce this 'success' rate much further.After implantation, there is a significant incidence of spontaneous abortion and hydrops (the surrogate mother's uterus fills up with water, and the animal has to be put down). In New Zealand, where cloning has been researched for some years, the Animal Ethics Committee reported 16 foetuses or calves from mid-gestation onwards spontaneously aborted or died in the neonatal period in 2010. Another 10 foetuses or calves had to be euthanized along with 14 cows.www.i-sis.org.uk/death_rates_end_cloning.php Sadly, despite the decision of the Scottish pioneer of cloning to abandon the technology after his experience with his first cloned creation, Dolly the sheep, Scottish scientists are 



Document Number: 5615
which our bodies would react.Regulators 'addressed' this concern by assessing the potential toxicity and allergenicity of the novel protein produced by the inserted gene. This neatly side-steps a fundamental safety problem with GMOs: it ignores the potential for the production of toxins or inflammatory agents due to changes in the wider genome and the metabolism it governs.Two unique scientific studies have been published which suggest our concerns about unexpected allergens are very valid. An early warning was sounded when a nut allergen turned up in soya which had been genetically transformed with a Brazil nut gene not known to be part of any allergen in its native form. More recently, an apparently innocuous bean gene inserted into peas not only generated an allergen, but induced cross-reactivity with other common proteins.Whether or not similar or worse problems are present in the GM in our food chain is unknown: none have been appropriately tested pre-marketing, and post-marketing monitoring is impossible in a supply chain flooded with variable amounts of different, untracked, GM crops. Unless people develop very unusual symptoms, as happened in the case of GM tryptophan poisoning in 1989, it's unlikely that GM toxins or allergens will ever be identified except 



Document Number: 5864
country seems to have set its sights on making human milk available to all, babies, children and adults. The catch is that this 'human' milk will come from a cow.In March, China held an exhibition to showcase its major technological achievements during the 'Five-Year Plan' of 2005-10. Among the wonders on display were photographs of a herd of more than 200 cows that had been genetically transformed to produce 'humanised' milk.The actual genes, the techniques used to produce the herd, the health of the herd, and the quality of milk obtained are shrouded in mystery and hype, not helped by the need to translate or interpret all the information from Chinese.However, the lead researcher Li Ning who has produced the GM herd confidently predicts that his GM milk will be as safe to drink as that of the ordinary cows, and that “Within 10 years, people will be able to pick up these human-milk-like products at the supermarket”, ensuring that “healthy protein contained in human milk is affordable to ordinary consumers”. At this stage, the claim that milk from transgenic animals will be safe is scientifically indefensible, but the UK still managed to trot out a British professor to say 



Document Number: 7813
rice contamination was discovered in US and Chinese rice. The biggest culprit was LL601, an experimental rice genetically transformed to be resistant to 'Liberty' weedkiller. US regulators moved quickly to limit the damage to their internal rice market, and the contaminant became their first approved GM rice. That there should be little apparent regulatory concern about legalising a herbicide-tolerant GM rice is ironic, because the US is no stranger to the dangers of genetic contamination from such a rice. In recent years, rice-growing states like Louisiana have become increasingly dependent on rice with 'Clearfield' technology, designed to overcome the problem of contamination from wild 'red rice' weeds. 'Clearfield plants have a natural gene which allows them to tolerate the herbicide 'imazethapyr', sold by BASF as 'Newpath'. The company which holds the breeders rights to Clearfield plants has formed a partnership with BASF to market and police their Clearfield-Newpath package. Cross-breeding with red rice is a commercial problem because the hybrids vary in important agronomic characteristics such as plant height and yield. Because Clearfield and red rice are closely related, they cross-breed very easily. A study of the adverse consequences to a crop contaminated with red rice, published in 2006, recommended 



Document Number: 182
are being festooned with with hardy American farmers showing off their Monsanto (GM) crops. It seems the Company is finding it imperative to persuade the US public that it really, really, is working in the best interests of the people and creating jobs on American farms. Another on-going biotech antic is “astroturfing”. This involves the creating and financing of fake 'grass-roots' organisations to generate a (fake) climate of GM-support.One such organisation is the Institute of Liberty (IFL), which describes itself as “an aggressive defender of the rights of individuals to pursue the American dream” by injecting “the perspective of small businesses and the working families that depend on them ... into the public policy debate”. Its aim is to fight against the excesses of government.The IFL, clearly has an anti-regulation, anti-government agenda perfect for promoting the interests of the biotech industry. Nowhere does it mention the damage caused to small businesses and their workers by big business, especially if unregulated, nor does it acknowledge the threat posed by multi-national monopolies to their precious American dream.The head of the IFL, Andrew Langer, previously worked for the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI), which has long been an aggressive GM-lobbyist and receiver of Monsanto 



Document Number: 6812
GM imports and cultivation in the EU. What is the NFUS basing its advice on? Is it hearing nothing beyond some short-term GM success stories and the continuing biotech company promises of farming-made-simple? Has something deafened it to the reports coming directly from today's GM farmers after several years' experience with the biotech crops? When the Roundup/Roundup-Ready crop package entered US agriculture, it was hailed as a momentous, revolutionary, near-miraculous farming tool, an economic boon, a godsend. By purchasing the GM seed and applying a single herbicide when the weeds began to show, their crops could grow free from competition for light or nutrients. Even some environmentalists were interested in Roundup's safety profile and in the low-till, soil-saving methods encouraged by the Roundup/Roundup-Ready seed package. For farmers, the reduction in labour and input costs was huge: no more ploughing, no more guessing which chemical to use on which weeds and when to use it, effortless care of their precious soil. With farming this easy, their land area and their profits could be expanded, and the expensive machinery previously essential could be ditched.“For a full decade and a half, everyone in the U.S. involved in agriculture, starting from the farmers themselves, 



Document Number: 5329
promote and protect commercial interests. Common sense might disallow the idea that a component of life which is self-replicating infinitely evolving, dispersive, and is, in some cases, a result of completely natural evolution can be patented. Industry and patent offices seem to have easily convinced themselves that common sense can be by-passed when there's profit in the offing. Predictably, the realities created by patents on DNA are beginning to become too apparent to ignore. Starting with the concentration of the global seed market in the hands of a few multinational patent-holders, we have rapidly witnessed the inevitable consequences: seed price hyper-inflation, erosion of seed diversity (especially of traditional seed availability) and along with this consumer choice, diversion of land-use and food-crops into production of industrial chemicals, and a stifling of independent science and innovation. The biggest problem is that the DNA in seed is not only fundamental to seed and crop quality. It also lies behind the resulting food and feed quality, the chemicals which can be extracted from the crop, the quality of livestock fed on the feed, and the quality of food or other materials derived from the livestock. By patenting the DNA in the seed, control of 



Document Number: 9970
a patent was granted on a conventionally bred tomato with a reduced core. Five months on, melons too became a Monsanto 'invention', complete with patent.In a blatant case of biopiracy, non-sweet virus-resistant melons from India have been bred with sweet melons from elsewhere to produce disease-resistant strains. summed up the whole situation thus: “This patent is an abuse of patent law because it is not a real invention. It contravenes European law excluding patents on conventional breeding. Further, it is a case of biopiracy, since the original and most relevant plants come from India. Patents like this are blocking access to the genetic resources necessary for further breeding, and basic resources needed for daily life are subordinated to monopolisation and financial speculation.”Besides the move to replace plant-breeders rights with the much wider control attaching to patents, Monsanto's melons are part of a bigger issue. The Netherlands seed company which actually bred (not created) the melons was taken over by Monsanto in 2008. This acquisition was part of a strategy of collecting promising germplasm and expertise from all over the world (See below).Monsanto's habit of collecting germplasm.Monsanto has “a catalogue that now spans 4,000 vegetables and fruit varieties across 20 species.”This 



Document Number: 6163
taxpayer “bailout” of 2008, now have as much loot, stock and property as the assets of 155 million Americans combined.” He explained how these 400 Americans got what they have: “they bought and paid for hundreds of politicians across the country to do their bidding for them”, “they control the media” to shape American minds, “they have created a poison pill that they know you will never want to take” in the form of a threat of mass economic annihilation. In 2009, Biotechnology companies spent $70 million on lobbying the US government to get their own way. Political action committees, formed by some food and agri-biotech firms, have 'donated' an average of $2 million a year to congressional candidates to get their own way. Former members of Congress have received fees of hundreds of thousands of dollars from biotechnology companies for representing biotechnology interests to their former colleagues in Congress. The Biotechnology Industry Organization, which represents biotechnology interests, spent over £4 million in the first half of 2010 lobbying for FDA approval of biotech political priorities such as approval of GM animals and cloned livestock in Europe. Meanwhile, a Scottish charity, Mary's Meals, founded 9 years ago, is now feeding 



Document Number: 7994
is GM and, also, for labelling in all three languages appropriate to Cypriot culture, Greek, Turkish and English. It stipulates hefty fines for non-compliance. Under EU legislation, each member state is free to display GM foods as it sees fit. This seems to be the first time anyone has taken the initiative to use this power. The Cypriot Green party were celebrating because the bill caps their “efforts of Predictably, Cyprus' GM separation bill was stopped in its tracks in 2005, after underhand threats by the US government. The president at that time was “unofficially” “strongly urged” by Washington to make sure such a law never got through parliament, because Cypriot-US relations would be damaged. The US embassy expressed concern that separation of GM foods (most of which are produced in America) would stigmatise them. The legal move in Cyprus follows another European GM landmark last year when Madeira became the first territory to be given formal permission to remain completely free of GM organisms. Portugal told the European Commission that: "the risk to nature presented by the deliberate release of GMOs is so dangerous and poses such a threat to the environmental and ecological health of Madeira, that it 



Document Number: 3350
DNA which achieved this wasn't a gene, but a 'back-to-front' version of one of the plants own genes. The effect of the 'backwards' DNA was to interfere with the expression of a key gene necessary for the ripening process, causing a delay in softening of the tomatoes. The only artificial gene this plant contained was an antibiotic resistance gene, and the risk assessment successfully focused on this side issue and on the artificial DNA construct, ignoring any effects of the actual transformation process. Despite these limitations, all subsequent GM risk assessments seem to have been largely modelled on this first one. The long-life GM tomato was a biological and commercial failure.Since then, the biotech industry has become pretty much fixated on three types of genetic manipulation: 'Bt' look-alike genes which are toxic to insect pests; toxin-neutralising genes which allow the crop to survive weedkillers; and paired fertility-adjusting genes which control cross-breeding of the GM plants. Commercial crops with other artificial characteristics inserted seem thin on the ground, a fact which has raised speculation that genetic transformation is an inefficiently unreliable technique which should be discontinued in favour of other more successful and less intrusive modern breeding technologies.However, there are signs 



Document Number: 3081
group of international scientists and researchers. The Report details the published, peer-reviewed, freely accessible and mounting evidence of harmful effects. Some of the findings are recent, but some go back a far as the 1980s. All of them have been ignored.” also asks “Is the public being kept in the dark?” The question is answered in a blow-by-blow account of how EU regulators have manipulated the information presented to them to promote and preserve the Roundup in your food chain and to protect the interests of the biotech industry. The story isn't pretty: a disgraceful combination of cherry-picking the studies, redefining scientific terms, disconnecting the corroborating data, shifting the regulatory goal-posts and avoiding transparency at all costs.Roundup has been on the market for decades. Why is it suddenly a problem?This herbicide is now a problem because GM 'Roundup Ready' crops have been designed to tolerate it. As a result, Roundup accumulates in Roundup Ready crop plants. The more Roundup farmers spray on their GM crops, the more Roundup accumulates in the crop and in the soil. And it doesn't go away.Given this predictable increased exposure to the herbicide, you might think it must have been checked for safety? The problem 



Document Number: 8828
during pregnancy to the herbicides sprayed on nearby fields, have at last received the serious attention they deserve.The main herbicide in question is 'glyphosate', the active ingredient of 'Roundup' which most GM crops, especially soya, have been engineered to withstand.A study has now been published which details, not only the developmental abnormalities induced by glyphosate, but the nature of the early tissue disruption involved, and the actual biochemical interference which distorts the tissue growth.Argentinean researchers used frog embryos, whose early cellular differentiation into different tissues is very similar to the human embryo and is regulated by very similar mechanisms. Their findings were backed up using chicks which are known to be another good model for the human embryo.As a healthy embryo elongates, natural chemical gradients are set up along its length so that one end develops into the head and nervous system and the other becomes the tail. The vital chemical in this process is retinoic acid which acts on the cascade of genes involved in organ-formation and tissue stability. Precise adjustment of the level of retinoic acid in different parts of the embryo is vital for normal development. This is achieved by a localised enzyme which destroys retinoic acid 



Document Number: 4680
engineered to withstand. A study has now been published which details, not only the developmental abnormalities induced by glyphosate, but the nature of the early tissue disruption involved, and the actual biochemical interference which distorts the tissue growth. Argentinean researchers used frog embryos, whose early cellular differentiation into different tissues is very similar to the human embryo and is regulated by very similar mechanisms. Their findings were backed up using chicks which are known to be another good model for the human embryo. As a healthy embryo elongates, natural chemical gradients are set up along its length so that one end develops into the head and nervous system and the other becomes the tail. The vital chemical in this process is retinoic acid which acts on the cascade of genes involved in organ-formation and tissue stability. Precise adjustment of the level of retinoic acid in different parts of the embryo is vital for normal development. This is achieved by a localised enzyme which destroys retinoic acid and so selectively reduces its presence. The problem with Roundup is that glyphosate interferes with that vital enzyme, and levels of retinoic acid remain high and active in the wrong cells. Embryos exposed to 



Document Number: 9070
four different Roundup formulations and to their active weed-killing ingredient, glyphosate. The results did not support the “regulatory agencies around the world” who concluded that “glyphosate herbicides pose no unreasonable risk to human health” (Monsanto 2005). Endocrine disruption was seen after exposure to one formulation of Roundup at a concentration as low as 0.5 ppm (parts per million). At increasing concentrations of the herbicides, DNA damage was observed at 5 ppm and cytotoxic effects were seen at 10 ppm. The maximum allowable residue level of Roundup in animal feed is 400 ppm. The study suggests that, if a safety factor of x100 below the lowest harmful dose is applied, the allowable residue level in human food should be 100,000 times lower than is currently the case.Other studies by the French team have found disruption and death of human placental, umbilical and embryonic cells after exposure to Roundup. Elsewhere, scientists have observed the herbicide to cause impaired liver-cell respiration and chromosome aberrations.Until 1996 and the advent of 'Roundup Ready' GM crops which can accumulate high levels of the herbicide without harm, our food couldn't be sprayed with Roundup. Human safety studies focused on the occupational hazard to farm-workers handling bulk quantities 



Document Number: 1023
that an American study on mice published in 2004 had recorded no pup survival, health or litter size problems at all.Using mouse testicular development as a sensitive biomonitor of toxic effects, the American study looked at what happened when the mice were given a diet of RR herbicide-tolerant soya. The authors measured the various cell types present in testicular tissue, and concluded that the transgenic diet had no negative effect.That same year, a preliminary study by an Italian team, also using mouse testis as a bioindicator, appeared in the literature. This team took a close look at subcellular features in the testes of mice fed RR soya. They observed cellular changes typical of those previously linked to stress factors or drugs. The similarity of the test material of these two studies coupled to their contradictory findings and the FSA's apparent eagerness to ignore studies which suggested GM-linked problems in favour of one which found no problems, led us to take a closer look at the two pieces of research.In the US paper all background introductory information is derived from Monsanto. The 'Materials' section specifically mentions that “Glyphosate degrades to harmless products, is inactivated rapidly in soil and has low toxicity 



Document Number: 4181
too much, so long as they do it efficiently.During the many years that glyphosate (the active ingredient in Roundup brand weed-killer) could only be used to clear fields before planting began, or for paths and roadsides, little research was carried out to find out what it actually did to the weeds, besides kill them.When GM Roundup Ready plants resistant to glyphosate appeared on the scene, we were presented with a clever technological trick which seemed to be based on the science of how the weed-killer worked. Glyphosate, we were told, kills by reacting with and inactivating an enzyme vital for the manufacture of many essential proteins in plants. The GM plants get round this by generating their own novel version of this enzyme which can't be knocked out by glyphosate. So we have weeding made easy: the GM seedlings survive spraying with Roundup while the weeds around them die.But, are the life-processes really so simple?Some varieties of Roundup Ready soya have a disturbing habit of turning yellow after being sprayed with Roundup. They recover, but it can take up to two weeks. This wasn't meant to happen.When university crop scientists began belatedly to investigate the effects and side-effects of glyphosate 



Document Number: 5778
commercial use. All planting of Monsanto's patented beet must stop and all GM beet planted since the initial ruling (now upheld) must be destroyed. As a regulated plant, GM beet is now illegal to grow commercially. The attorney for the Center for Food Safety said: “Today's order cements a critical legal benchmark in the battle for meaningful oversight of biotech crops and food. Because of this case, there will be public disclosure and debate on the harmful impacts of these pesticide-promoting crops, as well as legal protections for farmers threatened by contamination.”Concerns surrounding Roundup Ready beet relate to its environmental impacts, especially the inevitable emergence of very problematic herbicide-resistant weeds, and the inevitable gene pollution spreading from the crop. Growers of organic and non-GM beet, plus growers of many related plants such as table beet and chard, will be financially damaged by transgenic pollination of their crops. More subtle problems could arise from impaired plant vigour due to contamination by artificial DNA, and such gene-polluted plants will have the capacity to absorb and accumulate glyphosate residues from the soil or from spray-drift (see – GMFS News archive, December 2010). Court orders to stop all growing of GM beet were first 



Document Number: 6256
elsewhere. Roundup Ready seeds genetically transformed to resist Roundup herbicide are being mis-used and over-used, and farmers don't seem to know how to stop. Encouraged by the convenience of biotech seed-weedkiller packages, plus company spin, plus a reduction in the cost or Roundup from $80 a gallon in the early years to $10 today, farmers are shifting away from traditional tillage and crop rotation. Increasingly, they are adopting a no-till, reduced-labour, low-rotation regime. Year-on-year rotations of Roundup Ready corn and Roundup Ready soya, coupled in some areas to a two-year fallow period for the soil to recover (and for the weeds to thrive), have all set the scene for the inevitable emergence of some very problematic Roundup-resistant weeds. So far, farmers have reacted by upping their applications of Roundup: in some cases three or four times in the same field besides a pre-emergent application. This weed-resistance problem may also be increased by little-known interactions between Roundup and its environment. A university soil management specialist describes new research which is revealing how much soil acidity levels can inhibit the useful life of herbicides. As he put it: “We aren't letting our herbicides live the length they need to live. That's a 



Document Number: 422
favourable environmental profile.” (Monsanto website, November 1996)“Applying Rounup over soyabeans doesn't raise herbicide residues above existing residue standards” (Monsanto Europe, December 1995)“ * Roundup has been used commercially for more than 20 years ... in more than 100 countries.* Glyphosate is rapidly broken down in soil by naturally occurring soil microorganism* Roundup is effective ... eliminating the need for additional herbicides in Roundup Ready soyabeans” (Monsanto Europe, undated but pre-1997)This seems very reassuring. It tells us that Roundup herbicide has been around for years all over the world, long before the GM crops designed to be sprayed with it came on the scene. It's safe to eat, environmentally friendly, naturally disappears to negligible levels, and saves any need for additional weed-killers.The final claim has been the first one to unravel.Between 1994 (pre-GM) and 2005 (nine years post-GM), US government data reveal a 15-fold increase in the use of glyphosate; the following year, glyphosate use jumped a further substantial 28%.This has been due to a number of Roundup-related changes in farming practice:Whereas before the introduction of Roundup Ready (RR) crops, Roundup was used as a one-off burndown to clear fields of weeds before any crop seedlings emerged (or they would have been 



Document Number: 8800
with starches, sugar syrups, vegetable oils, 'protein' in various guises, imitation meat, and a host of additives. Over and above this 70% of processed food, the majority of animal products come from livestock given GM feed. US consumers, we are told have a high degree of faith in the food-safety oversight carried out by their regulatory agencies (the FDA, EPA,and USDA), and are happy to accept GM, even if most of them don't know they're eating it. The oft-repeated basis for this confidence is “We can't argue with the record: no one has been made ill from eating genetically modified foods”.The American Council on Science and Health (ACSH) The origin of this sound-byte seems to be the second edition of a booklet entitled “Biotechnology and Food”, prepared for the American Council on Science and Health (ACSH) in 2000. This not-for-profits organization describes itself as a “consumer education consortium” which accepts funding from industry and private foundations “as long no strings (are) attached”. Whistleblowers Stauber and Rampton describe the ACSH as an “industry front group that produces PR ammunition for the food processing and chemical industries”. The main author of the ACSH booklet is , a molecular geneticist now working in 



Document Number: 7319
could arise. The contamination was found in a small trial field of a new non-GM variety of OSR shipped from a Monsanto seed production farm in Idaho. It was found to be contaminated with about five GM seeds in every 10,000. This doesn't sound like a lot, but nevertheless an adjacent OSR trial crop was found to have been contaminated at a measurable level of one in 10,000. Regulators have decided to keep the location of the problem confidential. It was felt that the low level of the contamination did not justify publication of precise identifiers of the affected fields. Their stated priority was to protect the farmers involved, who had no intention of growing GM and had no way of knowing their crops were contaminated. The farmers are justifiably concerned that their reputation and land value will be compromised. The illegal seed is a Roundup Ready strain which will survive routine glyphosate-based weed-control treatments. OSR seed is known to be able to persist in soil for at least a decade. Gene pollution from stray survivors can spread by pollen and seed due to wind, wildlife and farming activities. In areas where glyphosate forms the dominant weed-control system, these factors 



Document Number: 8653
Drug Administration (FDA) during which all parties can ensure they have a get-out should anything go wrong: the biotech company can spin the process into FDA 'approval' of its GM crop, and the FDA can spin it into a thoughtful assessment of all the available evidence. Although the FDA consultation sounds like a foregone conclusion in favour of the biotech industry, its completion in regard to MON 87705, high-oleic acid, GM soya was a cause for jubilation. So much so that Monsanto put out a press release telling the world about it. This press release provides some fascinating insights into US regulatory attitudes to GM and into Monsanto's concept of 'life'. The first half-sentence of the press release announces that the FDA consultation on MON 87705 has been completed. The following nine-and-a-half paragraphs mention the benefits to health, to farmers, to consumers, and to food quality of the new 'nutritionally improved' (mentioned four times), 'nutritionally desirable', 'additional value', high-oleic, low-saturate, low-trans fat Vistive Gold soya. (There's also a final paragraph reminding the press about how wonderful Monsanto is.) This is slightly confusing because MON 87705 and Vistive Gold are two different kinds of soya, and there's a third kind called 



Document Number: 5246
broom handles. It is an especially problematic pest because it produces three generations during the May to September corn-growing season, and the larval form buries itself inside the plant within 7 to 10 days, after which it is inaccessible to any conventional insecticide applications.The ECB-weakened stem is prone to breakage and the disruption to the plant's vascular system inhibits plant growth and seed production.Agronomists, entomologists and plant breeders have accordingly devoted tremendous efforts to combat the pest.Chemical control is only feasible with intensive scouting and monitoring to identify the windows of opportunity when the larvae have moved to positions where they're exposed on the leaves, followed by a highly directed spray or by a powder poured onto the leaf-stalk to catch the grubs as they are about to start burrowing. More cost-effective methods involve crop rotation and adjusting planting dates to reduce the pests' opportunities to infest. The most important form of control is the selection of resistant hybrids, of which Bt-toxin generating GM varieties are, hands down, the most successful.However, Bt maize comes at a cost, and many questions about its true value remain to be answered.Amidst the host of commercial comparisons between Bt maize and other, conventional, maize 



Document Number: 892
the nucleus four times within a 60 second period. When the normal business of the cell is in progress, an “elegant choreography” is performed by the mingling chromosomes, putting each gene in an ever-changing location in the nucleus and in an ever-changing position in relation to every other gene. The biotech industry, with its blinkers firmly in place, has never looked beyond the molecular sequence of the DNA which forms a gene, and the single protein which can be generated by an artificial gene. The 98% non-gene DNA is dismissed as 'junk', and the protein structure to which the DNA is bound is dismissed as mere 'scaffolding'.Science outside industry is uncovering a very different picture.The nature of the carrier protein is subject to change and mutation, profoundly altering the expression of the genes it carries. For example, the protein 'scaffold' determines the all-important folding of the DNA attached to it: this affects the structure and timing of the protein expressed. It is the protein matrix which transports the DNA to precise locations within the nucleus: one position will express the gene while another represses it, another will allow any damage to be repaired, and another will degrade and recycle DNA 



Document Number: 8619
through transition, there is a colossal, global convergence of environmental destruction, social chaos, war, and ongoing Earth Changes.” Considering the recent unprecedented droughts, floods, snow-storms, gales, tsunamis, fires, sub-zero temperatures, volcanic eruptions, political upheavals, financial crises, declining human fertility ... he may have a point. The Elder also tells us that 21 December 2012 will be a date of rebirth: there will be a cleansing which will lead us to a new and better world. If, that is, we have not, in the meantime, destroyed too much of our Earth beyond the point of no return. He warns of “enormously powerful forces that seek to block the way” to that rosy future.  “They seek to unbalance the Earth and its environment so we will be unready for the alignment in 2012.” The strength of these forces lies in the pure focus of their intention on personal material gain: “just now, the dark side is very strong, and very clear about what they want. They have their vision and their priorities clearly held”. Their greatest fear is the unity of the people they must control for their own ends, and so “the dark side works to block unity through denial and materialism”.Can 



Document Number: 2024
four others when a German food processing company detected GM genes in its products. Contaminated shipments may have been distributed to 10 EU countries and 28 countries world-wide. Triffid flax is not legal for food use anywhere, including its country of origin, Canada. After what was poised to be a very good year for Canadian flax farmers, sales of the seed have collapsed, causing serious financial hardship. The GM flax, fancifully named Triffid, was transformed for tolerance to sulfonylurea-based herbicides which persist in the soil. The purpose of the novel variety was to allow a crop rotation of flax and winter wheat where weeds are routinely controlled with sulfonylurea derivatives lethal to conventional flax. Triffid was developed in the 1990s, approved for feed in 1996 and for food use in 1998 in Canada, closely followed by authorisation in the USA. The crop was grown in open fields at this time. However, under pressure from flax growers anxious to protect their European markets which import about 70% of the harvest, Triffid was deregistered and removed from the market in Canada in early 2001, at which time further research was abandoned. Before it was halted however, 40 farmers across the Prairies were 



Document Number: 9474
Bt-cotton seed planting, the initial benefits (reduced need for pesticides and increased income) had already been eroded by the need to control emerging secondary pests which the Bt toxin didn't kill.  The scientists stated “Failure to find a solution, may lead to the discontinuation of the use of Bt-cotton seed in China and elsewhere”. By 2010, 95% of cotton grown in China was GM.  Chinese scientists reported that pesticide use on Bt crops had crept up from nil to two thirds of its pre-GM levels, and that this rise was anticipated to continue.  A key problem noted by the authors of this study was that farmers are facing new pests, which they react to by overusing pesticides because information on the timing, dosage and frequency of chemicals appropriate to the new pests is not available.  Chinese cotton farmers have no prior experience to fall back on, and scientists haven't yet been able to provide the knowledge they need. Indeed, scientists have a lot of catching up to do in this field: the long-term effects of transgenic Bt crops on non-target pests have received limited attention, especially in the diverse small-holder cropping systems in the developing world.  The most problematic secondary 



Document Number: 3970
Its creator saw that it was good, and that there was a lot of profit to be made from it Its creator also saw that, while regulators would easily be persuaded of Roundup Ready wonders, the public would not. Therefore, the creator of Roundup Ready soya took steps to oil the wheels of acceptance. In 1996 and 1997, just as the first Roundup Ready (RR) soya crops were entering the food chain, letters of concern from the British public to Monsanto were enthusiastically answered with a folio of papers extolling the benefits and safety of its new GM beans:“Roundup Ready soyabeans are just like any other soyabeans in safety, nutrition, composition and the way they process into high-protein animal fed and ingredients in the food we eat, such as margarine, salad dressings and bakery products.”At the same time, the Company website quoted “1800 evaluations” concluding RR soyabeans are the same as other commercially available varieties. In the UK, The Soya Bean Information Centre was set up to assure the sceptical that “extensive testing” procedures had found “No health risk of any sort”. All these glowing assurances were based on three studies which Monsanto had published in 1996. The papers were 



Document Number: 5031
Clark, has suggested “let's stop with the 'higher yield' mantra and stick with the scientifically defensible evidence”.Cotton has been subject to extensive commercial genetic transformation. The first GM cotton, in 1995, was resistant to bromoxynil herbicide, followed quickly by Bt-generating insecticidal and glyphosate herbicide-resistant varieties. After that, the artificial traits began to stack up with other Bt-toxin variants, and different kinds of herbicide-tolerance.In Monsanto's 1997 Report, readers were informed that, the previous year, “The company's insect-protected cotton provided a 7% yield improvement”. In 2011, Monsanto was complaining about the efforts of NGOs seeking to protect farmers from Monsanto's infamous lawsuits when their fields suffered genetic pollution. The company stated that “These (NGO) efforts seek to reduce private and public investment in the development of new and higher-yielding seed technologies.” The link between 'GM' and 'higher yields' has thus been firmly established in the public, agricultural, political and academic perception.A report from the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) in 2006 stated that “currently available GM crops do not increase the yield potential of a hybrid variety ... In fact, yield may even decrease if the varieties used to carry the herbicide tolerant or insect-resistant genes are not the highest yielding cultivars.”A 



Document Number: 9793
law is expected to lead to radical conservation and social measures which will reduce pollution, reduce emissions, and control industry. Eleven rights will be established for Nature, including:the right to continue vital cycles and processes free from human alterationthe right to pure water and clean airthe right not to have cellular structure modified or genetically altered.All industries in Bolivia will have to think long and hard about what their activities are actually doing to life, especially the biotech industry which doesn't seem to have any place at all in a land with laws like these. Head South to Argentina, and you'll find an area which has noticed what its high-tech agricultural system is doing to the people living there. The province of Santa Fe has now banned the spraying of agrochemicals in the vicinity of urban areas. This is the first case in Argentina where a Court has made a firm decision to prohibit such spraying to protect health. It sets an important precedent for judges elsewhere in the country and establishes a legal basis for questioning the GM soy/agrochemical agricultural model which has been implemented on a huge scale in Argentina. There are lots of important implications in this 



Document Number: 2088
mathematician-physicist in his day, defined science in terms of beauty: “The scientist does not study nature because it is useful to do so. He studies it because he takes pleasure in it; and he takes pleasure in it because it is beautiful. If nature were not beautiful, it would not be worth knowing and life would not be worth living”. What Poincare was taking about was “the ultimate beauty which comes from the harmonious order of its parts and which a pure intelligence can grasp.” Science of the 21st Century seems to have become defined in more practical terms. The modern scientist's most likely expertise is in designing artificial DNA constructs and using them to corrupt living cells.The DNA-design part has been largely taken over by dial-a-gene companies which have developed computer programmes to work out the best sequence for the purpose intended. A DNA production lines then rolls out whatever the scientist wants.As far as inserting the artificial DNA into the cell is concerned, scientists now have an arsenal of methods at their disposal.The earliest and most widely used method of genetic transformation is biolistic bombardment. DNA constructs are stuck to the surface of tungsten or gold microspheres and 



Document Number: 8180
(crops and others) and to the marketing of GM food and feed providing:“a robust risk assessment indicates it is safe”full account has been taken of the scientific evidenceclear labelling and suitable information are provided to enable consumer choicein the event of commercial GM crops being grown in England, economic interests of conventional and organic farming are “appropriately protected”.In addition, GM technology has been relegated to the “longer term challenges”, and developing countries are to be allowed to “make their own informed decisions regarding (GM) use”, while at home the government “will listen to public views about the development and use of the technology”. Needless to say, there's a get-out clause: “regulations of (GM) technology must be proportionate”.Genetic modification (GM) – UK Government policyThe protection of human health and the environment are our overriding priorities.The Government will only agree to the planting of GM crops, the release of other types of GM organism, or the marketing of GM food or feed products, if a robust risk assessment indicates that it is safe for people and the environment. GM product applications should be assessed for safety on a case-by-case basis, taking full account of the scientific evidence.The Government will ensure consumers are 



Document Number: 3792
the exploitation of southern developing lands whose local livelihoods, water supplies and environment are threatened by spreading soil damage and desertification, promoted by intensive agriculture and GM crops. Econexus also points out the weaknesses of plans to replace 'first generation' biofuels from dedicated crops with 'second generation' ones using GM woody plants and GM microbes. So far, the main initiatives put forward to 'ensure' that environmental benefits accrue from the production of biofuels have involved 'sustainability certification schemes'. A number of reasons are presented by Econexus as to why the present schemes, whether voluntary or mandatory, can't effectively address the problems: First and foremost, the fact that agrofuel crop production has been shifted to foreign lands. Many developing countries do not have the infrastructure to implement safeguards, to monitor the effects, nor to implement accountability. The local communities affected by agrofuel crop production are not being considered nor consulted. One report from the Netherlands pointed out the shaky practicalities of such schemes. “Some of the impacts of biomass production are difficult to assess on the individual company level, and only become apparent on the regional, national and sometimes even on the supranational level ... in particular the impacts caused by 



Document Number: 9493
that US consumers are going in one direction while its administration, hand-in-hand with industry, is going in another. This sounds a strange sort of a democracy. And, there are signs it's about to crack. For example, there has never been labelling of GM products in America: but that's because the government and industry don't want it, not because the people don't. In 1995 a US Department of Agriculture (USDA) survey found 84% of respondents in New Jersey wanted GM foods to be labelled. In 1997 a biotech company (Novartis) survey found 93% in favour of GM labelling, and a Time Magazine poll that same year found 81%. In 2001 the Pew Initiative on Food and Biotechnology noted “a majority of consumers in the United States desire GM foods to be labelled”. In 2003 a part-USDA-funded university poll found 85% of respondents wanted GM labelling. In 2011 a CBS/New York Times poll found 87% want labelling, and a few weeks later, an MSNBC (cable news) poll recorded 96% of respondents strongly in favour of GM food labelling. (It's noteworthy that the backdrop to these responses is one in which 74 per cent of the people don't realise they're eating GM foods 



Document Number: 3503
on current science, seems to have been infiltrated by pushy individuals with a vested interest in promoting GM. After a number of unsuccessful attempts to manipulate the debate, some particularly pro-GM members of the Academy arranged a 'study week', entitled “Transgenic Plants for Food Security in the Context of Development' which took place in May 2009 in Rome. The attendees invited to the study week were limited to well-known biotech promoters who could be counted on to reach the right conclusions. According to the organisers, the 'study' week was “not standard science” nor “a balanced meeting ... (seeking) some kind of idiotic consensus”.Without 'debate', 'balance' or 'standard science', the study week was clearly not a Pontifical Academy event. However at the time, the foregone pro-GM conclusion of the 'study' was successfully fed to the media as Vatican support for GM. This was done so cleverly that even the highly respected scientific journal, 'Nature Biotechnology', announced it, two months before the study week took place. The misinformation was immediately corrected in the Catholic press, and things went quiet for over a year. However, after all that trouble (and presumably expense) engineering the 'right' conclusions and attaching them to the Vatican, the 



Document Number: 4155
cauliflower and related vegetables. In infected plants, its normal function is to switch on the genes needed for the virus to replicate itself. In GM plants its function is to switch on the engineered DNA attached to it which otherwise would likely remain dormant: effectively it overpowers the host cell's own self-regulatory mechanisms to permanently turn on the inserted genes which then generate huge amounts of the transgenic proteins. The value of the CaMV 35S 'promoter' to genetic engineers lies in its promiscuity: it acts on all types of DNA in the genome of all types of plants. Any suggestion that problems could arise from putting millions of copies of an aggressive viral promoter into every mouthful of our food have been reasoned out of existence by the biotech industry and regulators. Their argument goes something like: humanity has been eating such DNA in its natural form forever, besides which it won't survive processing, cooking and digestion, and, even if it did survive, it is plant-specific and so can't turn on the genes in mammals including humans, or gut bacteria, and, even if it did survive and get into such cells, it will only activate the gene to which it 



Document Number: 8723
of the DNA found in a virus which commonly infects cauliflower and related vegetables. In infected plants, its normal function is to switch on the genes needed for the virus to replicate itself. In GM plants its function is to switch on the engineered DNA attached to it which otherwise would likely remain dormant: effectively it overpowers the host cell's own self-regulatory mechanisms to permanently turn on the inserted genes which then generate huge amounts of the transgenic proteins. The value of the CaMV 35S 'promoter' to genetic engineers lies in its promiscuity: it acts on all types of DNA in the genome of all types of plants.Any suggestion that problems could arise from putting millions of copies of an aggressive viral promoter into every mouthful of our food have been reasoned out of existence by the biotech industry and regulators. Their argument goes something like: humanity has been eating such DNA in its natural form forever, besides which it won't survive processing, cooking and digestion, and, even if it did survive, it is plant-specific and so can't turn on the genes in mammals including humans, or gut bacteria, and, even if it did survive and get into such cells, 



Document Number: 5073
hundreds of acres of GM sugar-beet which he declared had been planted in violation of federal law. In the court, the many ways in which GM sugar beets could harm the environment and consumers were outlined. It was also noted that containment efforts are currently insufficient and that past contamination incidents were “too numerous” to allow the illegal beet crop to remain in the ground. In his court order, the Judge ruled that “farmers and consumers would likely suffer harm from cross-contamination” between GM sugar beets and normal crops. He continued “the legality of Defendants' conduct does not even appear to be a close question”, and noted that the government regulators and Monsanto had tried to circumvent his prior ruling which had made the GM beet illegal to grow. The problem is that artificial gene constructs can't be contained. Insect-pollinators, wind, water, farm and transport equipment, GM weeds and crop volunteers all can and do play their part in spreading man-made DNA far and wide. This has never been more obvious than in the waves of genetic pollution seen in 2010. In areas where GM crops are being legally grown, waves of artificial DNA will stream in from neighbouring GM 



Document Number: 1028
paths and roadsides, little research was carried out to find out what it actually did to the weeds, besides kill them. When GM Roundup Ready plants resistant to glyphosate appeared on the scene, we were presented with a clever technological trick which seemed to be based on the science of how the weed-killer worked. Glyphosate, we were told, kills by reacting with and inactivating an enzyme vital for the manufacture of many essential proteins in plants. The GM plants get round this by generating their own novel version of this enzyme which can't be knocked out by glyphosate. So we have weeding made easy: the GM seedlings survive spraying with Roundup while the weeds around them die. But, are the life-processes really so simple? Some varieties of Roundup Ready soya have a disturbing habit of turning yellow after being sprayed with Roundup. They recover, but it can take up to two weeks. This wasn't meant to happen. When university crop scientists began belatedly to investigate the effects and side-effects of glyphosate on GM plants, what they found amounted to significant disruptions throughout the plants' physiology. Roundup Ready plants can't get rid of the Roundup they absorb: glyphosate remains there until 



Document Number: 2039
given a 13% GM soya diet really have “no GM content”?Canterbury University's Professor of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Jack Heinemann, was engaged by the New Zealand Commerce Commission to to investigate and comment. His remit was to include:The transfer of DNA from GM plants into animalsThe transfer of GM proteins into animalsThe ability of GM feed to alter the metabolites in the animal productThe ability of GM feed to cause physiological or immunological responses in the animalThe presence of GM ingredients incorporated into the final animal product.Specifically, he was not asked to evaluate food safety claims, biological significance, nor animal welfare issues.Professor Heinemann found “substantial and credible literature” which detected DNA and proteins unique to GM plants within animals and animal products. The possible sources of such GM material were identified as coming, not only from feed, but from proximity to other animals fed GM, and from subsequent processing. He found:“compelling evidence that animals provided with feed containing GM ingredients can react in a way that is unique to an exposure to GM plants. This is revealed through metabolic, physiological or immunological responses in exposed animals ... The cumulative strength of the positive detections reviewed ... leave me no reasonable 



Document Number: 9541
to digest.  They're routinely processed into a host of “food-like substances” (Pollan).  Before they get anywhere near your plate, soya beans will have received some or all of the following treatments: multiple heat-treatments, pressure, cracking and crushing, chemical extractions, treatment with acids, alkalis and enzymes, bleaching, addition of  preservatives, supplements, colouring and flavouring, and finally molding into some shape to make it seem to be something it's not.  All this doesn't sound a very good way to produce wholesome food. As you might expect, soya indeed presents several health issues.  However, add in GM soya and  these health concerns are raised to a whole new level. In animal feeding experiments comparing GM-soya with non-GM-soya, seven out of twelve studies have so far indicated problems in the GM-fed group. Classic 90-day feeding trials, which are the standard safety test for foods, do not reveal any problems.  However, the more sophisticated measurement techniques now available to scientists are increasingly demonstrating promisis of chronic toxicity. Vulnerable individuals such as the young, the elderly, or those whose diet or health is poor are especially at risk.Heavy processing of conventional soya is necessary to remove the phytate and other anti-nutrients which interfere with our absorption 



Document Number: 2706
of the novel protein produced by the inserted gene. This neatly side-steps a fundamental safety problem with GMOs: it ignores the potential for the production of toxins or inflammatory agents due to changes in the wider genome and the metabolism it governs. Two unique scientific studies have been published which suggest our concerns about unexpected allergens are very valid. An early warning was sounded when a nut allergen turned up in soya which had been genetically transformed with a Brazil nut gene not known to be part of any allergen in its native form. More recently, an apparently innocuous bean gene inserted into peas not only generated an allergen, but induced cross-reactivity with other common proteins. Whether or not similar or worse problems are present in the GM in our food chain is unknown: none have been appropriately tested pre-marketing, and post-marketing monitoring is impossible in a supply chain flooded with variable amounts of different, untracked, GM crops. Unless people develop very unusual symptoms, as happened in the case of GM tryptophan poisoning in 1989, it's unlikely that GM toxins or allergens will ever be identified except as 'more of the same' upward spiral of modern chronic disease. (See 'GM 



Document Number: 2417
is made by a vast array of living organisms, organised by Nature's intelligence to work in concert. Our bodies, too, are living matter and are a unique product of the intelligence of Nature. You are what you eat: to maintain the intelligence in your body, you need to eat intelligent food grown in intelligent soil.Michael Pollan describes most of what we now eat as 'food-like substances'. You are what you eat, so presumably eating these gives you a body-like body. An intelligent body is a stable, coherent whole. Can a body-like body run itself intelligently, or does it fall apart? Food-like substances are made in a factory. Some of their constituents may once have been 'food' but after the machines and added chemicals have done their bit, the results may say 'food' on the label, and may even look like 'food', but they are nothing like what your body recognises as food. The number of added E-numbers, artificial vitamins and things with long chemical names, all disguising the lack of food actually present, should give you a clue: food-like substances have lost their intelligence. Can a body made of them maintain its own intelligence? Pollan's disturbing views on 'food' have 



Document Number: 5680
based on a theory called the CentralDogma, which asserts that one gene will express one protein, and thus an organism’s genome — its total complement of DNA genes — should fully account for its unique pattern of inherited traits. However, the Human Genome Research Project determined that this theory was not true. Instead, they found that genes operate in a complex network in ways that are still not fully understood. There are far too few human genes to account for the complexity of our inherited traits or for the vast inherited differences between plants — and particularly the animals or bacteria or viruses with which they are being genetically manipulated. At worst case, the Human Genome Research Project undermines the support for genetic engineering, and its claims that methods of genetically modifying food crops are “specific, precise, and predictable.” At best case, it illustrates the enormous amount of time, expense, effort and ultimate uncertainty involved in attempting to genetically engineer food. Most of all it clearly illustrates the inherent risk borne by humans consuming genetically altered foods without any prior safety testing, as well as the multitude of risks to the environment — through the creation of superweeds, the uncontrolled 



Document Number: 262
director of corporate communications, “Monsanto should not have to vouchsafe the safety of biotech food. Our interest is in selling as much of it as possible. Assuring its safety is the FDA’s job.” So, if neither the U.S. government nor the U.S. food producers are responsible for the safety of genetically modified food, who is? “The FDA has placed the interest of a handful of biotechnology companies ahead of their responsibility to protect public health. By failing to require testing and labeling of genetically engineered foods, the agency has made consumers unknowing guinea pigs for potentially harmful, unregulated food substances.” - Andrew Kimbrell, executive director of Center for Food Safety The leading scientific journal Science Direct recently published a study showing significant conflict of interest in so-called “research” done on the health risks and nutritional assessment of genetically modified products. Yet in April 2011, the FDA moved to allow Monsanto to perform their own environmental impact study on the very GMOs it has been responsible for developing. Who is the FDA protecting? From the Institute of Responsible Technology website’s “GMO Basics” page: Q. Hasn’t the FDA said that GM foods are safe? The biotech industry claims that the FDA has 



Document Number: 1950
genetically engineered products? As a teenager, I worked in the restaurant industry, where it was standard procedure to fill a huge metal sink with water, dump in a packet of “bleach chemicals,” and submerge heads of lettuce to soak in the solution. My manager said it helped freshen the lettuce and remove brown spots, which made our salad mix last longer. So I became aware early on that our food was not always what it seemed. But, better living through chemicals, right? That’s what I’ve grown up believing. As an adult, I began to notice that the food at certain restaurants caused me stomach distress — typically Chinese and steak house restaurants. When someone suggested I might be “allergic” to the seasoning salt used during the cooking process, I began to ask my waitstaff to hold the stuff. Sure enough, that reduced the problem, but not completely. When I learned that seasoning salts often contained MSG, I chose Chinese restaurants that touted “no msg” in their food. But every once in a while, no matter how careful I was, the problem would crop up. I came to accept it as part of the vagaries of the restaurant business, remembering full 



Document Number: 7074
Here’s the complete story about the wonders of GMOs… GMOs Will End World Hunger! When GMOs (genetically modified organisms) were first promoted back in the early nineties, it sounded like the world would soon be saved from famine. Indeed, the original intent was positive: GMOs would make food better tasting, more nutritious, and longer lasting. Scientists and leaders of third world countries hoped that genetically engineered food would help feed the hungry and the world’s growing population with wonder products like Golden Rice. GMOs Will Make Food Better! Biotech companies proudly announced that genetically altered crops would produce much higher yields and the hungry could finally be fed. For regions of the planet where there was little rainfall, plants could be made drought resistant. Vitamins could be introduced, making genetically modified produce more nutritious. Crops would be made resilient to pests and could grow in spite of them. Without GM foods, warned Dr. Alan McHughen, a biotechnologist at the University of Saskatchewan who spoke at a conference on agricultural biotechnology at Cornell University, the earth would not be able to feed the ever-growing billions of people who inhabit it. (Never mind the 2008 study done by the International Assessment of 



Document Number: 4370
not. Yet there is no difference between them. The techniques involved and the products that result are identical. Rather, the words "genetic" and "engineer" seem to provoke alarm among millions of consumers. The situation recalls the introduction of the M.R.I. (for magnetic resonance imaging), which was originally called an N.M.R., for nuclear magnetic resonance. The word nuclear, which in this case referred only to the nucleus of an atom, caused such public concern, it threatened to stymie the growth of this valuable medical tool. The idea of genetically modified foods, known as GM foods, is particularly frightening to those who know little about how foods are now produced and how modern genetic technology, if properly regulated, could result in significant improvements by reducing environmental hazards, improving the nutritional value of foods, enhancing agricultural productivity and fostering the survival worldwide of small farms and the rural landscape. Without GM foods, Dr. Alan McHughen, a biotechnologist at the University of Saskatchewan, told a recent conference on agricultural biotechnology at Cornell, the earth will not be able to feed the ever-growing billions of people who inhabit it. "Without GM foods we will not be able to feed the ever-growing billions of people..." - 



Document Number: 5058
/ Certified Organic” if they contain genetically modified foods. To put it in more detail: 100% Organic: Must contain 100 percent organically produced ingredients (excluding water and salt). This is the only label that certifies a completely organic product AND completely GMO-free ingredients. Certified Organic / USDA Organic / Organic: At least 95 percent of content is organic by weight (excluding water and salt). The <5% remaining ingredients must consist of substances approved on the USDA’s National List. GMOs are NOT on this list, so these products are also GMO-free. Made with Organic: Up to 70% of the ingredients are organic. These products can NOT carry a “USDA organic” label and are NOT typically GMO-free. But lately, even organic products are at risk…. What Does the “Organic” Label Certify? To have a product certified as organic, a producer/manufacturer/farmer must undergo third party verification to ensure that the requirements of USDA National Organic Program are met. These requirements certify the process of growing the crop (they do not test the resulting crops/food). Processes that are reviewed include: • All production methods — which must be free from most synthetic chemicals (e.g. pesticides, herbicides & fertilizers, antibiotics & hormones), genetically modified organisms, 



Document Number: 2373
biggest bully of all: the biotech company, Monsanto Corporation. Taken in context, Monsanto’s list of corporate crimes should have been enough to pull their corporate charter years ago. And yet we allow them to continue to destroy our food supply, our health and the planet. Take a look at the company’s track record and decide for yourself… The following are eight ways that Monsanto has already done lasting damage… 1. Agent Orange Monsanto was the major financial beneficiary of this herbicide used to defoliate the jungles of Vietnam and destroy the health of American troops and their offspring. It also allowed Monsanto and other chemical companies to appeal for and receive protection from veterans seeking damages for their exposure to Agent Orange and any future biotech creations. 2. Aspartame (aka NutraSweet / Equal) As far back as 1994, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released a report listing 94 health issues caused by aspartame. It has been shown to cause slow but serious damage to the human body and yet it is used extensively in many commercial products. (Watch a quick video here.) 3. Saccharin Studies have shown that saccharin caused cancer in test rats and mice; and 



Document Number: 3929
see the difference: it’s labeled “organic.” Unfortunately, GMOs are not labeled. Which means you have no idea if you’re choosing food with genetically modified ingredients. And believe me, you are. About 70% of the time. If something is that prevalent in our food, why isn’t it on the label? Walk down the next aisle in that same grocery store and put a six pack of soda in your cart. There’s nothing on the label telling you that each can is packed with roughly 13 teaspoons of genetically modified corn in the form of high fructose corn syrup. But you don’t drink that stuff, right? Okay, head over to the energy bars — a healthy option for busy mornings when you don’t have time for breakfast and you know better than to subject your body to McBrekkie. Better, right? Wrong. The majority of those “healthy” energy bars are loaded with corn starch, fillers, protein powder, and sweeteners — all of which are genetically modified. Whew. Let’s get some “all natural” yogurt. Sorry, that’s from cows injected with rBGH (recombinant bovine growth hormone) and it’s flavored with high fructose corn syrup. But didn’t it say “all natural…?” (Yes it did, but “natural” 



Document Number: 2402
and Environment Biotechnology Commission (AEBC), has said it would `be difficult and in some places impossible to guarantee' that any British food was GM-free if commercial growing of GM crops went ahead. In North America, farmers can no longer be certain the seed they plant does not contain GM genes. GM genes are often `dominant' - ie, they are inherited at the expense of non-GM genes when cross-pollination occurs between GM and conventional species. With the first GM crops considered for commercialisation - oilseed rape and sugar beet and maize - the `gene flow' (ability to contaminate non-GM varieties) is `high' and `medium to high', respectively. To prevent cross-pollination, the official advice in the UK is that there should be a separation distance of just 50 metres between GM oilseed rape and non-GM varieties. But pollen can travel a lot further than that. Bees, for example, regularly fly for up to 10 kilometres; hence, oilseed rape pollen has been found in hives 4.5 kilometres from the nearest GM crop field. Tree pollen grains have been recorded in the essentially treeless Shetland Isles, which are 250 kilometres from the nearest mainland. And the University of Adelaide has published research into wind 



Document Number: 5428
the richly patterned textures of meaning conversation can evoke.But our abandonment of conversation extends far beyond the dinner table. Our broader social relations, and also our dialogue with the natural world, have contracted toward mere informational exchange, leaving us bereft of larger patterns of meaning. When you lose the shifting, multiply-focused, metaphoric, and life-supporting qualities of conversation, what you have left is the attempt -- useful as far as it goes -- to formulate well-behaved problems susceptible to well-defined solutions. To do this you must employ the narrow, precisely formed language of manipulation and control -- a language we have come near to perfecting. While this language may offer little in the way of understanding or meaningful engagement with the other, it does bring the very real satisfaction of more or less effective power.If the impressive drive toward effective power has taken special hold in any one scientific discipline, surely it is genetic engineering. And if this drive can display beneficent potentials, how better to do it than by placing a daily bowl of genetically engineered "golden rice" on the dinner tables of millions of Asian children, thereby saving them from immenseThis hope, many researchers believe, is now nearing fulfillment. 



Document Number: 7722
with genetically modified crops last year, about 25 times as much as just four years earlier. Wind-blown pollen, commingled seeds and black-market plantings have further extended these products of biotechnology into the far corners of the global food supply — perhaps irreversibly, according to food experts. "The genie is already out of the bottle," said Neil E. Harl, a professor of agriculture and economics at Iowa State University, speaking of genetically modified organisms, or G.M.O.'s. "If the policy tomorrow was that we were going to eradicate G.M.O.'s, this would be a very long process. It would take years if not decades to do that." Most of the biotech fields are soybeans and corn planted in North and South America, the biggest food exporters. But biotech crops — genetically altered to do things like release their own insecticide or withstand the spraying of weed-killing chemicals — are being shipped or experimented with in many other countries, including China, India, Australia and South Africa. They are even turning up where people least expect them: in countries where they are banned but a black market has developed; in food supplies where they are forbidden or shunned, like organic products; even in fields that 



Document Number: 2864
by theState Public Interest Research Groups (PIRGs) and Genetically EngineeredWhen the science of genetic engineering began in the 1970s, the NationalInstitutes of Health (NIH) said experiments that released geneticallyengineered organisms into the environment were too hazardous and should notbe performed. Despite these early calls for caution, a booming agriculturebiotechnology industry has developed. The report, Raising Risk: FieldTesting of Genetically Engineered Crops in the U.S., documents the extent offield testing of genetically engineered crops in the U.S. and highlights thepotential risks associated with release of genetically engineered organismsinto the environment. If field experiments are not properly monitored,genetic pollution may result, putting farmers' livelihoods and theKey findings of the report include:* USDA has approved nearly 29,000 field tests through the year 2000.* More than 60% of all field tests conducted in the last year contain genesclassified as "Confidential Business Information."* Between 1987&endash;2000, Monsanto (or a now wholly-owned subsidiary)applied to conduct the greatest number of field tests every year, totaling* Since 1995, seven of the top 10 companies seeking to conduct field testshave merged into two companies: Monsanto and DuPont.* As of January 2001, the ten states and territories that have hosted thegreatest number of field test sites are: Hawaii (3,275), Illinois (2,832),Iowa 



Document Number: 7141
products thereof must be approved before import, transit, contained use, release, and market release can take place. Any GMOs or products thereof must be labeled as such and there is a strict liability regime in place. This model law will serve as a model for national implementation in African countries.: A ban on the import of all genetically modified foods, raw and processed, went into effect on May 1, 2001. This includes GMOs and: Ban on field trials of GE crops, and the termination of ongoing field trials of Monsanto’s GE cotton and corn. Ban on all commercial planting of GE crops. Thailand will be drawing up legislation for labeling of: Ban on commercial planting of GE rice, wheat, corn and soybean.: Declared not to import GE wheat. Recent legislation has set zero tolerance for imports containing unapproved GE products. Imports found to contain unapproved GMOs will be destroyed or shipped back to origin. Violators may incur penalties of up to one-year imprisonment and may be fined. The legislation also seeks mandatory labeling for GMOs in food. : The community of Valencia called for a five-year moratorium on GE food and GE crop trials and commercialization. The Philippine president recently announced a moratorium on GE crop research.   The European Union is expected to 



Document Number: 7019
word for his farm's cashflow. Beaudoin got premium prices for keeping his crops free ofpesticides and other controversial trappings of modernagriculture. But his 1999 canola harvest tested positive forgenetically modified (GM) strains, and its value dropped by a third.So earlier this month Beaudoin joined some 1,000 other farmers ina suit against GM canola makers Monsanto and Aventis, allegingthe firms' seeds have contaminated organic fields. The farmerswant restitution for lost profits and to block the introduction of GMAre genetically engineered crops–which contain genes fromother species that let plants produce their own pesticides, amongother things–actually dangerous? Perhaps more to balancesheets and to the environment than to people. StarLink GM corn,for instance, was at the center of an uproar two years ago thatprompted 300 food products to be yanked from grocery stores. ACenters for Disease Control and Prevention study later found noevidence that StarLink actually made anyone sick. But inNovember 2001, scientists reported finding genes from GM corn inMexican "criollo maize," a source of modern corn varieties. Plantbreeders worry such cross-pollination could flood out geneticdiversity, making it impossible to breed new strains. And along withcontamination from GM seeds blowing into organic fields, farmersin western Canada fear GM-enhanced "superweeds"–problemplants they can't kill with herbicides. 



Document Number: 690
word for his farm's cashflow. Beaudoin got premium prices for keeping his crops free ofpesticides and other controversial trappings of modernagriculture. But his 1999 canola harvest tested positive forgenetically modified (GM) strains, and its value dropped by a third.So earlier this month Beaudoin joined some 1,000 other farmers ina suit against GM canola makers Monsanto and Aventis, allegingthe firms' seeds have contaminated organic fields. The farmerswant restitution for lost profits and to block the introduction of GMAre genetically engineered crops–which contain genes fromother species that let plants produce their own pesticides, amongother things–actually dangerous? Perhaps more to balancesheets and to the environment than to people. StarLink GM corn,for instance, was at the center of an uproar two years ago thatprompted 300 food products to be yanked from grocery stores. ACenters for Disease Control and Prevention study later found noevidence that StarLink actually made anyone sick. But inNovember 2001, scientists reported finding genes from GM corn inMexican "criollo maize," a source of modern corn varieties. Plantbreeders worry such cross-pollination could flood out geneticdiversity, making it impossible to breed new strains. And along withcontamination from GM seeds blowing into organic fields, farmersin western Canada fear GM-enhanced "superweeds"–problemplants they can't kill with herbicides. 



Document Number: 7559
to rice engineered to produce vitamin A, adeficiency found in nearly 3 million children, largely in the Third World? As remarked by Mary Lou Guerinot, the author of the Commentary on Vitamin A rice in Science, onecan only hope that this application of plant genetic engineering to ameliorate human misery without regardto short term profit will restore this technology to political acceptability. Unfortunately, Vitamin A rice is a hoax, and will bring further dispute to plant genetic engineering wherepublic relations exercises seem to have replaced science in promotion of untested, unproven andThe problem is that vitamin A rice will not remove vitamin A deficiency (VAD).It is a technology that fails in its promise. Currently, it is not even known how much vitamin JA the genetically engineered rice will produce.goal is 33.3% micrograms/100g of rice.Even if this goal is reached after a few years, it will be totallySince the daily average requirement of vitamin A is 750 micrograms of vitamin A and 1 serving contains30g of rice according to dry weight basis, vitaminA rice would only provide 9.9 micrograms which is1.32% of the required allowance.Even taking the 100g figure of daily consumption of rice used in thetechnology transfer paper would only 



Document Number: 3403
D&PL are co-owners of three patents on the controversial technology that genetically modifies plants to produce sterile seeds, preventing farmers from re-using harvested seed. A licensing agreement establishes the terms and conditions under which a party can use a patented technology. Although many of the Gene Giants hold patents on Terminator technology, D&PL is the only company that has publicly declared its intention to commercialize Terminator seeds. (for details, see '2001: A Seed Odyssey' RAFI Communique, January/February 2001, www.rafi.org) 'USDA's decision to license Terminator flies in the face of international public opinion and betrays the public trust,' said Hope Shand, Research Director of RAFI. 'Terminator technology has been universally condemned by civil society; banned by international agricultural research institutes, censured by United Nations bodies, even shunned by Monsanto, and yet the US government has officially sanctioned commercialization of the technology by licensing it to one of the world's largest seed companies,' explains Shand. 'USDA's role in developing Terminator seeds is a disgraceful example of corporate welfare involving a technology that is bad for farmers, dangerous for the environment and disastrous for world food security,' adds Silvia Ribeiro of RAFI. Terminator has been universally opposed as an immoral technology because over 



Document Number: 6429
Proceedings of the National Academy Science in 1994, describing a technique for rapidly shuffling and recombining DNA in the laboratory that appears to generate recombinant proteins with greatly improved performances. According to Stemmer, computer simulation studies had demonstrated the importance of recombining segments of genes in evolution, rather than single base changes. To put this into practice, he devised a method for reassembling genes from random gene fragments in the test tube. The DNA of the gene is digested with the enzyme deoxyribonuclease 1 (DNAse 1) into random 10 to 50 bp (base-pair) fragments. These fragments are heated up to separate the two strands and made to re-anneal (pair up again) in the presence of a DNA polymerase, an enzyme that synthesize DNA. Figure 1 DNA shuffling. Different variants of a gene or a DNA sequence, represented by the different colours are fragmented and reassembled to generate millions of recombinants all at once. See complete version The recombinants are cloned into a vector and introduced into bacteria for rapid screening. In this way, many variants of any gene can be rapidly recombined, even variants from different species. Larger pieces of DNA such as entire plasmids, viral and bacterial genomes can 



Document Number: 8204
fight pollution, even serve as sentinels for detecting germ and chemical attacks.Environmentalists fear dangerous unintended consequences."It won't be as widespread as agricultural biotechnology, but it could be much more destructive," said Jim Diamond of the Sierra Club. "Trees are what's left of our natural environment and home to endangered species."The Sierra Club wants a moratorium on the planting of genetic engineered trees outdoors until the science is better understood. But the plea has been like a tree falling deep in the forest.Tree researchers say their critics are missing all the ways that science can give nature a fighting chance against ravages natural and manmade.Biotechnology, they say, may provide just what is needed to help reverse global deforestation and industrial pollution while satisfying increased demand for wood and paper products.Already, biotechnology has been credited with saving Hawaii's $14-million-a-year papaya industry. A virus had wiped out 40 percent of the crop and threatened to destroy the rest before seeds engineered to resist the virus were introduced in 1998. Now the industry is thriving again.About 230 notices of genetically engineered tree experiments have been filed with the Department of Agriculture since 1989, with about half since 2000. So far, papayas are the only 



Document Number: 4416
nursery to grow and ship about 150,000 genetically engineered baby redwoods to the company's 10,000-acre Conway Hills plantation on New Zealand's South Island. The seedlings, transported in sterilized Petri dishes, will be planted in August, which is late winter in New Zealand.Six months ago, Soper-Wheeler planted the first 50,000 young redwoods at the site, an old sheep ranch that the company acquired for $905,000 two years ago. The company also is establishing a Douglas fir plantation at the site.Soper-Wheeler's New Zealand redwood plantings will continue over the next 35 years, with the first trees to be harvested and sent to U.S. mills at the end of that cycle, according to Jim Rydelius, a veteran North Coast forester who is managing the project.Rydelius said because of climate conditions and genetically improved strains, the New Zealand trees are expected to be "significantly larger" than North Coast redwoods of the same age.Soper-Wheeler is a century-old Sierra Nevada-based company that owns 103,000 acres of timberlands, including a 10,000-acre swath of Mendocino County redwoods. It is ranked among the state's most respected timber companies.Soper-Wheeler's New Zealand venture is the biggest industry attempt yet to grow redwoods for commercial timber production outside the fabled species' native 



Document Number: 9253
farmers of the American Mid-West and petrochemical plastics factories burning precious reserves of fossil fuel. But what if their vast, rolling fields of corn had granules of plastic forming in the stalks and leaves? For farmers like Brian Peterson, a Western Iowa corn grower, this is a far from academic question. Mr Peterson farms near Mondamin in Harrison County, 30 miles from the wet milling plant of agricultural giant Cargill. It is also the site of Cargill Dow's $300m (£200m) plastic manufacturing facility that will be taking l000t of maize a day by the end of 2001. "This is something farmers have been waiting for," says Kevin Swanson, chairman of the Nebraska Corn Board. "It represents a new market and a variety of new, high-tech products." The effects will not, however, be limite to American corn growers. Cargill Dow is developing the technology to use annually renewable agricultural waste and other crops such as wheat, and sugar beet. It has also announced plans to open a similar facility in Europe within the next two years. What type of plastic is it? Cargill Dow, a 50/50 joint venture between Cargill Inc and the Dow Chemical Co, owns the most successful process. 



Document Number: 2883
(FAO) Global Perspective Studies Unit completed in April and released at the end of July.This conclusion is reached by FAO experts whose quantitative analysis specifically does NOT allow for any production improvements from genetically modified (GM) crops. These are not factored in by FAO due to the ongoing uncertainties regarding the technical performance, safety and consumer acceptance of GM crops. (p.2)Accordingly the FAO projections are restricted to being based on 'present-day' technical knowledge only (p.1, 2, 95, 117). Ignoring the impact of any future developments in genetic engineering, and using a baseline year of 1995/7, the FAO report reveals that:* the latest assessment of world population trends by the UN (UN,1999) indicates that there is a 'drastic deceleration' in world demographic growth in prospect. (p.3)* the growth rate of the world population, which had peaked in the second half of the 1960s at 2.1 percent p.a. and had fallen to 1.3 percent p.a. by the late 1990s, is projected to fall further to 1.0 percent by 2015, to 0.7 percent by 2030 and to 0.3 percent by 2050. (p.4, 25)* although the annual rate of growth in global crop production is expected to reduce, the projected overall increment in world 



Document Number: 7532
of Sciences, says that while there are many techniques being developed to prevent genetically engineered organisms or their genes from escaping into the wild, most techniques are still in early development and none appear to be completely effective. "One of our big messages throughout the whole report is that there are very few bioconfinement methods that are well developed," Anne R. Kapuscinski, a professor of fisheries, wildlife and conservation biology at the University of Minnesota and a member of the committee that wrote the report, said at a news conference in Washington yesterday. Companies and scientists are now developing a wide range of genetically modified organisms: salmon that grow superfast, mosquitoes engineered not to transmit malaria, corn that produces pharmaceuticals and industrial chemicals. One concern about these transgenic products is that their genes or the organisms could spread. Fast-growing fish, if they were to escape into the wild, might beat out regular salmon for food or mates, disrupting the ecological balance. Genes giving crops resistance to herbicides or insects might spread to weeds, making the weeds harder to eradicate. Pollen flow from corn engineered to produce a drug could allow the drug to get into corn destined for the food 



Document Number: 9845
Flavr Savr, a genetically engineered fruit designed to solve a problem of modernity. Back when we all lived in villages, getting fresh, flavorful tomatoes was simple. Local farmers would deliver them, bright red and bursting with flavor, to nearby markets. Then cities and suburbs pushed out the farmers, and we began demanding our favorite produce year-round. Many of our tomatoes today are grown in another hemisphere, picked green, and only turn red en route to the local Safeway. Harvesting tomatoes this way, before they've received their full dose of nutrients from the vine, can make for some pretty bland fare. But how else could they endure the long trip without spoiling? Flavr Savr was meant to be an alternative, a tomato that would ripen on the vine and remain firm in transit. Calgene scientists inserted into the fruit's genome a gene that retarded the tendency to spoil. The gene-jiggering worked - at least in terms of longer shelf life. Then came the backlash. Critics of genetically modified food dubbed the Flavr Savr "Frankenfood." Sparked by the Flavr Savr's appearance before the US Food and Drug Administration, biotech watchdog Jeremy Rifkin set up the Pure Food Campaign, stalling FDA approval for 



Document Number: 1781
these units carries the information.[1] A gene is a specific sequence of bases that function as a unit, carrying particular “orders” for making protein in the body.[2] Genes are responsible for expression of numerous traits in living organisms. Process of Genetic Modification In a single sentence genetic modification is a process whereby a segment of DNA, which is found in every living cell, is extracted from one organism and spliced into a recipient organism’s preexisting DNA.[3] In this way scientists have achieved techniques for causing one organism to take up and express segments of another organism’s DNA faster than the traditional breeding methods previously employed. There are several methods to achieve the exchange of DNA from one living organism (called the “donor”) into another(called a “host” or “recipient”). Those methods include: direct DNA uptake by the host cells mediated by chemical or electrical treatments (electro or chemical poration); microinjection of DNA directly into host cells; bioballistics, or firing tiny metal particles coated with the DNA of interest into host cells; and employing plasmids found in bacteria, such as the soil bacterium Agrobacterium tumefaciens, or a virus, as a vehicle to carry the DNA into host cells. A Closer Look At 



Document Number: 445
referring to the scale of the loss as “extensive,” found that some 75 percent of plant genetic diversity has been lost since 1900 as farmers turn to genetically uniform, mass-produced crop varieties. The term “biodiversity” was derived from “biological” and “diversity,” and refers to the total diversity of all life in a given locale — one as small as a backyard (or smaller) or as large as the entire planet Earth. 1 Since genetically modified crops (a.k.a. GMOs) reinforce genetic homogeneity and promote large scale monocultures, they contribute to the decline in biodiversity and increase vulnerability of crops to climate change, pests and diseases. Genetically modified crops grow in a dynamic environment and interact with other species of the agro-ecosystem and surrounding environment. As “biological novelties to the ecosystems,”2 GM crops may potentially affect the “fitness of other species, population dynamics, ecological roles, and interactions, promoting local extinctions, population explosions, and changes in community structure and function inside and outside agroecosystems.”3 The recent concerns raised by Dr. Don Huber, who noted a link between GM crops, engineered to withstand continued applications of glyphosate, plant diseases and spontaneous abortions and infertility in pigs, horses, cattle and other livestock, further underscore the 



Document Number: 3944
attention. As you look at each food item and its ingredients, consider these fundamental unanswered questions concerning genetically modified (GM) foods — which are most foods that you eat today. Disturbingly, while we are force-fed “wholesome” messages about the alleged benefits of GM foods, a decade and a half after the first GM crops went commercial many of the same concerns persist. Read on and find out whether you want frankenfood to be your next meal. 1. Human Health Concerns Many scientists, doctors and health advocates raise concerns about the unintended impact of GMOs on human health. Yes, because there is no independent research (and in fact, seed companies’ agreements forbid the use of seeds for independent research), nobody can say with any degree of certainty that GMOs are safe. And so it is not surprising that there are unresolved questions concerning the potential alteration in human genome, allergenicity of introduced genes and high toxin production in plants and animals that may lead to long-term health effects. What’s more is that certain GMOs may also have the potential to further lower the effectiveness of antibiotics in the population. Amflora, the GM potato, for example, that was recently approved in the 



Document Number: 7719
common application of genetic technology today. The article below explores these uses in greater detail. 1. Forcing Expression or Suppression of Traits One example in which geneticists try to manipulate genetic materials to force the expression or suppression of different traits was the genetically engineered FLAVR SAVR tomato that Calgene, Inc. (now controlled by Monsanto) created in an attempt to extend the shelf life and supposedly improve the flavor of tomato.[1]The Calgene scientists isolated a gene associated with an enzyme involved in the ripening of the tomato plant.[2] They reversed the gene, blocking the expression of the enzyme and extending the time it took before picked tomato became soft.[3] The goal of such tomatoes was to allow extended shelf life, and easier transportation, as tomatoes could be picked while they were still hard.[4] Although FLAVR SAVR was a commercial failure, the model – gene isolation and insertion into another species to affect some trait or process – is still used by genetic engineers.[5] A subset of this category is the use of GMO seeds in “revolutionizing” food production and improvement of health of populations in developing nations. Indira Nath, for example, sees biofortification of seeds as a viable solution to 



Document Number: 3216
be “pure” and “100% natural” despite the fact, the complaints allege, that they were derived from genetically modified plants and organisms. Last time we checked, nature did not make corn that carries genes from the Bacillus thuringiensis bacterium that is poisonous to insect pests in the corn genome, a view shared by plaintiffs in these lawsuits. In a conversation with GMO Journal, plaintiffs’ attorney for the California case, Andrei V. Rado, stated that ConAgra’s claims of its oils being “pure” and “100% natural” are likely to deceive consumers because the oils contain ingredients made from genetically modified plants, which, even according to industry definitions, are not natural. Monsanto defines GMOs, the California complaint states, as follows: Plants or animals that have had their genetic makeup altered to exhibit traits that are not naturally theirs. In general, genes are taken (copied) from one organism that shows a desired trait and transferred into the genetic code of another organism. (emphasis in the original). Similarly, the California complaint alleges that Romer Labs, a company that provides diagnostic solutions, defines GMOs as follows: Agriculturally important plants are often genetically modified by the insertion of DNA material from outside the organism into the plant’s DNA 



Document Number: 6101
labeling in the United States. Taking initiative, the Institute for Responsible Technology (a.k.a. The Campaign for Healthier Eating in America) together with the Center for Food Safety, have created the Non-GMO Shopping Guide, which has recently been updated. The updated Guide includes new features, such as a free iPhone App, the ShopNoGMO, which, not only lists brands that do not use genetically modified ingredients, but also identifies more than 100 hidden ingredients, like dextrose and lecithin, which may be derived from GM soy, corn or other GMOs, so consumers know what to avoid. Plus, the iPhone App divides foods into 22 categories, making it easy to locate brands. The App also allows users to create favorites lists and answers frequently asked questions about GMOs. You may also want to check out the updated Guide on-line and familiarize yourself with food products and labels. The Guide, for example, gives you information as to the following: 1. Foods that have not been genetically engineered – a category which includes most fruits and vegetables (the only commercialized GM fruit so far is papaya from Hawaii — about half of Hawaii’s papayas are GM). 2. Foods derived from animals fed or treated with GE 



Document Number: 9239
labeling food line as being free from genetically modified ingredients. In so doing, Whole Foods is joining the Natural Grocery Company, the Big Carrot Natural Food Market and Good Earth Natural Foods, the early partners of the Non-GMO Project, and the companies that have lent major support to the project and participated in the initial piloting of labeling program including Eden Foods, Organic Valley, Lundberg Family Farms, Nature’s Path Organic and United Natural Foods, Inc. Whole Foods becomes the first major chain at the retail level to enroll its product in the verification system (although other private labels are also interested). As the Whole Foods press release states, the PVP is the nation’s first system designed to scientifically test whether a product has met a set of defined standards for the presence of genetically engineered organisms. Specifically, the PVP uses a process that combines on-site facility audits, document-based review and DNA testing to measure compliance with the standard. For a product to bear the non-gmo seal it must undergo a process through which any ingredient at high risk for genetic contamination, such as soy or corn, has been shown to meet the non-GMO standard through avoidance practices and testing. Once 



Document Number: 1253
governments of developed nations and multinational companies are leasing or buying large tracks of land across the African continent and other countries around the world in a feverish rush to grow crops for food and bio-fuel. While China in particular is looking to cultivate far-away lands to meet their national demand for food, the burgeoning markets of the European Union are hungry for agrofuels. For countries such as Saudi Arabia, India, Canada, Belgium, France, South Korea, the Netherlands and even multinational organizations, like the West African Development Bank, African countries such as Ethiopia, Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Liberia, Mali and Zambia are attractive for their arable land and water resources. Underused or simply cheap land is being snapped up by foreign governments and speculators alike not just in Africa, but also in Central Asia, Eastern Europe, and South America. Developing nations around the world loosen regulations and even reclassify land tracts to allow purchasers to acquire land in exchange for foreign capital and to develop local biofuel markets. However, the primary beneficiaries of this land grab remain the foreign buyers who are mainly interested in exports, leaving poor regions with fewer dependable land resources and further threatening their 



Document Number: 1955
called alpha-amylase for biofuel production. Deregulation means that the product would no longer be subject to USDA oversight and could be grown without any restrictions at any scale in the United States. The approved corn will be the first genetically engineered industrial crop destined to be planted on millions of acres. In response to USDA’s decision, a consumer advocate group, Center For Food Safety (CFS), announced that it is planning litigation. According to CFS, the GE corn – known as Event 3272 – is genetically engineered to contain high levels of a heat-resistant and acid-tolerant enzyme derived from exotic, marine microorganisms. The enzyme breaks down starches into sugars, the first step in conversion of corn to ethanol, and has not been adequately assessed for its potential to cause allergies, a key concern with new biotech crops. Part of the problem is that this GE corn will contain novel proteins, which, according to Union Of Concerned Scientist (UCS), have never been in food and were never intended for human consumption. “In fact, except for a small cadre of scientists, human beings have never encountered them.” Furthermore, “[a]gronomists suggest that unharvested corn will deposit large quantities of this enzyme in the soil, 



Document Number: 2505
crop to bacterial disease known as banana Xanthomonas wilt (BXW), which causes infected bananas to ripen unevenly and prematurely, and then to wilt and rot. The genetic modification process that the researchers are investigating involves taking a sweet pepper gene, which produces a protein called HRAP that strengthens the plant’s ability to seal off infected cells, and inserting it into the banana genome. With this research on GM bananas, Uganda now joins Africa’s GM club–which currently consists of South Africa, Egypt and Burkina Faso, which grow GM crops commercially, and Kenya, which is expected to start growing such crops in 2012. Several other African countries will soon be eligible members as they are conducting field trials, or, are about to start, on staples such as cowpea (or black-eyed pea), cassava and sweet potato. The research, growth and commercialization of GM bananas in Africa and other developing nations, or any other staple crop for that matter, raises profound concerns for farmers and consumers alike. We are not just talking about health and environmental safety issues, although they continue to remain at the forefront. To many, genetic modification of crops in developing nations represents issues of domination and control (patented seeds that 



Document Number: 1582
cut or damaged. Unlike the typical commercial GMOs that focus on pesticide or insecticide resistance, the company’s gamble is that tree fruits that do not deteriorate as quickly when cut will help boost sales of freshly sliced apples. The fresh-cut sliced apple market segment has been booming, but this bet is bound to face enormous challenges with consumer, farmer, and industry acceptance. The company behind the GM apple is Okanagan Specialty Fruits (OSF) based in British Columbia that was founded in 1996. OSF exclusively licensed its gene control technology from Australia’s national science agency, CSIRO, and it is looking to alter genes of apples, as well as pears, peaches and cherries. The company expects that genetic modification will be the right cosmetic touch to benefit apple processors and the food service industry, however it is bound for a failure. While the USDA and FDA approval process has barely started, the biggest challenge for OSF may be winning over consumer approval. Beyond public concerns over genetic modified foods, there are also worries that this technology may help hide any damage that apples had incurred during harvest and transportation, as well as the real age of produce on the store shelf. And 



Document Number: 9799
new planting of genetically modified sugar beets. Among other things, APHIS said it will issue permits for GM “steckling” (i.e., seedlings) production. Many see the agency’s response as an attempt to circumvent the Court’s order since it would allow for the commercial planting of GM crops without public notice and comment and environmental review. On August 13, 2010 a California District Court issued a ruling which banned the planting of Monsanto’s Roundup Ready GM sugar beets until APHIS conducts an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”), finding that APHIS’ failure to conduct one prior to deregulation of GM sugar beets was in violation of the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”). Roundup Ready sugar beets are genetically modified to withstand continued application of Monsanto’s herbicide, Roundup. Officially, the agency’s statement was in response to a concern among certain growers that there may not be sufficient supply of conventional beet seeds to meet the demand in part because GM sugar beets constitute 95 percent of sugar crop in the United States. Many, however, question whether this is yet another instance of USDA serving Monsanto’s interests at the expense of the public interest. APHIS’ response seeks to, allegedly, “not only respond to the concerns of 



Document Number: 6441
everyone consumed the recommended amounts of fish in order to obtain enough Omega-3s, the results would be catastrophic for wild fish. There is also a concern that eating too much of certain kinds of fish may lead to mercury and other heavy metal poisoning. And, we are told that while other food sources, such as flax, for example, contain Omega-3s, they are considered incomplete and are inefficiently converted by the body. Enter Monsanto: with the collaboration of Solae, the company has developed a soybean that has been genetically engineered to contain the Omega-3 fatty acids. The “GM (Omega) soy,” the company claims, will not only add to a healthier lifestyle (Omega-3s is said to lead to better cardiac health) but that it will stabilize the ocean’s fish population. Unlike other plant based foods containing Omega-3s, it is claimed that the GM (Omega) soy is more efficiently converted by the body. The company is moving forward without much delay in developing and testing foods containing this ingredient in part because of the green light from the Food and Drug Administration which has issued a GRAS (generally recognized as safe) notice for the GM (Omega) soy. And recently the Canadian Food Inspection 



Document Number: 574
Discovery News is reporting that a new breed of genetically engineered dandelions is currently in development and could be implemented in a number of industrial, chemical and pharmaceutical uses. Currently, transgenic dandelions are used to create dandelion-derived latex. The biotechnology that is used in creation of dandelion-derived latex, however, can be implemented to create not only car tires but also insulin for diabetics, artificial sugars and drugs for other diseases. Here’s why dandelion latex is valuable. For thousands of years, most of the world’s rubber has come from tropical rubber trees. A diagonal cut in the trunk allows the white latex to drip into hanging cans, which can then be harvested and eventually turned into a variety of different materials. Natural rubber contains trace amounts of biological impurities, which is a beneficial aspect for car tire makers as those impurities give vulcanized rubber a give and elasticity they can’t get anywhere else. Yet, those same impurities trigger life-threatening allergic reactions in some people. People allergic to rubber have to rely on synthetic or petroleum-based rubber as such rubber would typically have fewer impurities than natural rubber. Now consider dandelions, which can produce latex that has both the elasticity of natural 



Document Number: 8254
that the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s deregulation of genetically engineered Roundup Ready sugar beets in 2004 was unlawful. Plaintiff groups, Center for Food Safety, Organic Seed Alliance, Sierra Club, and High Mowing Seeds, represented by Earthjustice and the Center for Food Safety, filed suit against USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (”APHIS”) in January 2008 claiming agency’s failure to adequately assess the environmental, health, and associated economic impacts of allowing Roundup Ready sugar beets to be commercially grown without restriction was against the law. The District Court agreed and held that APHIS violated the law when it failed to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement, thereby violating the National Environmental Policy Act, before deregulating sugar beets that were genetically engineered to be resistant to the herbicide glyphosate, marketed by Monsanto as Roundup. Judge White also ordered the USDA to conduct a rigorous assessment of the environmental and economic impacts of the crop on farmers and the environment as “the potential elimination of a farmer’s choice to grow non-genetically engineered crops,” that could result from cross-pollination of GM crops with those grown free from genetic modification, “or a consumer’s choice to eat non-genetically engineered food, is an action that potentially eliminates 



Document Number: 2768
can provide the answer to. While often speculative claims of potential GM "miracles" win vast amounts of column inches, the non-GM success stories generally get minimal if any reporting in the popular media. Without GM's often exaggerated crisis narratives and claimed silver bullet solutions, it seems there is no story! The biotechnology industry and its PR people are keen to keep it that way, particularly because the non-GM solutions are often way ahead of the work on GM. They also bring none of the uncertainties that surround GM. All of this makes keeping track of the many non-GM success stories especially important. The GM breakthroughs that never were Another reason it's important is because - thanks to the lack of success with GM "solutions" - non-GM success stories can end up being claimed as GM breakthroughs! A classic instance is provided by the UK Government's former chief scientist, Professor Sir David King, who has repeatedly used non-GM breakthroughs as evidence of why we need to embrace GM. In one case, King claimed a big crop yield increase in Africa was due to GM, when it did not involve the use of any GM technology at all. On another occasion, King 



Document Number: 394
by up to a quarter and lift some of the world's poorest out of poverty, a study found. The study published on Thursday by the Mexico-based International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT), with input from other food research institutes, focused on 13 African countries in which it has been handing out drought tolerant maize to farmers over the past four years. It described maize as "the most important cereal crop in Africa", a lifeline to 300 million vulnerable people. The Drought Tolerant Maize for Africa plan aims to hasten the adoption of maize varieties that withstand dry weather. "The vision of this project is to generate by 2016 drought tolerant maize that ... increases the average productivity of maize under smallholder farmer conditions by 20-30 percent on adopting farms (and) reaches 30-40 million people." It also aims to add an annual average of $160 - $200 million worth of additional grain to Africa's harvest, it said. Wilfred Mwangi, a Kenyan agricultural economist on the project, said the drought resistant maize shows comparative yields that beat other varieties even if there's no drought. "We are saying that comparing with whatever farmers are growing now, these varieties will outperform what they 



Document Number: 9409
new brand name for its range of water optimized hybrids and the newest addition to the Agrisure¬Æ family of high-performance trait products. A limited quantity of hybrids with this technology, which has demonstrated the potential to deliver 15% yield preservation under drought stress, will be available through the company‚Äòs Garst¬Æ, Golden Harvest¬Æ and NK¬Æ product brands. Agrisure Artesian technology enables corn plants to use available moisture more efficiently, resulting in higher yields on drought-stressed acres including dryland and limited-irrigation farms in the western Corn Belt. Growers on rainfed acres in the central and eastern Corn Belt likewise can use Agrisure Artesian technology to help stabilize yields in years of inconsistent rainfall or in fields with variable soil types and moisture-holding capacity. In years of ideal rainfall, hybrids with Agrisure Artesian technology have demonstrated no yield penalty compared with hybrids without the technology. "Any grower will tell you how tough it is to watch corn roll up under heat and drought stress during tasseling and silking, knowing those plants may never fully regain that lost yield," says David Morgan, president of Syngenta Seeds, Inc. "We are pleased to announce Agrisure Artesian technology, the industry‚Äòs first water-optimized corn technology, to help growers 



Document Number: 6546
is changing, rainfall is decreasing and the weather is now dictating which varieties farmers grow and in turn which varieties seed companies produce,‚Äù says Dellings Phiri, general manager of Seed Co. Malawi, a leading southern African seed company. He refers to two new drought tolerant maize varieties‚ÄìZM 309 and ZM 523‚Äìdeveloped specifically for Malawi‚Äôs drought-prone areas with infertile soils by CIMMYT, Malawi‚Äôs Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, and the Chitedze Research Station, through the Drought Tolerant maize for Africa (DTMA) project. The research was supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Howard G. Buffett Foundation. The varieties were officially launched in March 2009. "In Malawi, each adult eats 300 kilos of maize annually, and ZM 309 and ZM 523 will give farmers a boost in safeguarding their maize harvests from the increasing threat of drought,‚Äù says Wilfred Mwangi, associate director of CIMMYT's Global Maize Program and leader of the DTMA project. First introduced by local extension agents to farmers in the drought-prone Balaka area through farmer-managed demonstration plots, these varieties have rapidly become popular among farmers, who have been impressed by their superior performance and accepted them. Compared to other popular commercially marketed varieties, farmers have 



Document Number: 5989
Improvement Center (CIMMYT) and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) ‚Äî have found a way to achieve precisely that. Their combined efforts are vital for improving and stabilizing Africa‚Äôs maize production in an era of food price volatility and emerging climate change. Drought, which is expected to become more frequent and severe with climate change, already reduces maize yields by an average of 15% annually, amounting to about US$200 million worth of lost grain. Recent droughts in eastern and southern Africa have been particularly disastrous. Maize is a highly diverse crop, ensuring ample scope for genetically enhancing its tolerance to drought through breeding techniques designed specifically for this purpose. CIMMYT and IITA work with national partners to adapt and apply such techniques in Africa. As a result, more than 50 new drought-tolerant varieties and hybrids have been developed and released for dissemination by private seed companies, national agencies and nongovernmental organizations. African farmers now grow many of those varieties, which yield 20-50% more than others under drought, on hundreds of thousands of hectares. To build on this success, CIMMYT and IITA now focus their collaborative efforts on the Drought-Tolerant Maize for Africa (DTMA) Initiative. By significantly scaling up current 



Document Number: 4030
of the Kitgum District, close to the border between Uganda and South Sudan. It was a light rain, but a very welcome one for Alphonso Oyo, who had planted a new variety of high yielding NERICA ("New Rice for Africa") rice, and was waiting impatiently for it to flower. "These rains are late, and the flowering of my rice is behind as a result", observes Alphonso. "But with the NERICA variety that I have planted on this dry and hostile soil here on the uplands, I am still hoping to get a good harvest in September". Alphonso is already back working his old farm. About 1.5 million more internally displaced people are gradually moving back to their original lands after more than 20 years living a precarious existence in the refugee camps of northern Uganda. Their return is being helped by FAO's NERICA project, which is introducing innovative, rice-based farming systems to increase food security and reduce poverty in Uganda. Funding was provided by Japan (US$1.5 million 2008-2010). Going back to the land Hostilities in this region ceased following a peace process concluded in 2006 between the Ugandan government and the rebels of the Lord's Resistance Army. "That is where 



Document Number: 3979
of the staple maize. "The rains have become [scarce]... This is the fourth year we have had insufficient rain," Harrieta Nyaga, a farmer from the Rwika area, told IRIN. "We expected rains in March, but they came in January. People got confused, some planted, some did not... the crop was affected." Nyaga, a mother of four, said she had planted 0.8ha of maize but was unsure whether she would harvest more than two 90kg bags. "Normally, I get up to 20 bags," she added. Declining maize yields, due to climate variability and high fertilizer costs, have caused maize prices to soar. The cost of a bag has doubled to about 2,000 shillings (US$25) in the area. Four new drought-tolerant pigeon pea varieties are being piloted in Mbeere, and specialists say the crop is hardy and can grow in a range of environments and cropping systems. The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) is providing farmers with free seeds. "They select the preferred varieties and sizes," said Richard Jones, ICRISAT Eastern and Southern Africa assistant director. The selection is based on maturity times, plant height, stem thickness, amount of leaves, susceptibility to disease, cooking times and soil types. 



Document Number: 532
to propagate trees will be made available to nurseries through the University of Illinois. Being resistant to apple scab is a big plus for growers, said University of Illinois plant geneticist Schuyler Korban, as it significantly reduces the number of chemical fungicide sprays. "Apple scab is the number one disease that growers have to spray for ‚Äî 15 to 20 times per season ‚Äî so not having to spray for apple scab lowers the cost for the grower and is better for the environment." Why does it take over 20 years to make an apple? "It takes a long time to develop an apple because you want to test it in different locations, you want to observe it over a number of years, and it takes awhile for an apple to get noticed," said geneticist Schuyler Korban. "I liked it the first time I saw it and I liked the flavor. It has an excellent mix of sugar and acid and a very pleasant flavor, but I was hesitant because of the finish ‚Äî it's not glossy." Korban thought the finish might pose a problem because consumers are accustomed to seeing waxed fruit in stores and may not like the 



Document Number: 122
partnership between the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Beijing and the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. Called "Green Super Rice," it is the result of a project begun in 1998, involving the painstaking crossbreeding of more than 250 different potential varieties and rice hybrids, according to Dr Jauhar Ali, a senior scientist and regional project coordinator for the Development of Green Super Rice at IRRI in Los Banos, south of Manila. The development of the process, Dr Ali said, is considered so significant that Microsoft founder Bill Gates met personally with Zhi-Kang Li who holds a dual position both with IRRI as Senior Molecular Geneticist and as Chief Scientist with the Institute of Crop Sciences at the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Beijing and, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, presented the program with a US$18 million, three-year grant to expand the benefits to Asia and Africa. The two institutions are seeking additional donors to be able to push the rice to undeveloped corners of Africa and other continents to help stave off the growing need for food across the planet. The process was developed by Zhi-Kang Li, It involves the efforts of hundreds of 



Document Number: 6046
Zambia's maize fields have had the life scorched out of them. In some provinces the severity of the drought may mean a crop failure of 100 percent. With maize reserves falling short of the country's requirement, the Zambian government has banned the export of maize meal to neighbouring countries in a bid to forestall the looming food deficit. This crisis is reminiscent of the crises Zambia faced in 2000 and 2002. It's not only the threat of hunger, though, that's reviving painful memories; it's also the way in which that threat is being exploited. For the genetically modified foods lobby, tragedy spells opportunity, with drought and crop failure providing the perfect platform to pressure the Zambian government over its resistance to genetically modified organisms. So far, instead of going down the GM route, Zambia has been looking to alternatives to feed its population. Three years ago, when that strategy was first adopted, it led to Colin Powell's denunciation of Zambia at the Earth Summit in Johannesburg. And Powell's attack was just one element in a virulent US/industry campaign of pressure and dissimulation that continues to this day. The backdrop in 2002 was crop failure across much of southern Africa. Famine 



Document Number: 8837
useful in so many ways that Darwin, the father of evolution theory, once marveled at its diversity. A laboratory worker arranges samples of different cassava species at the laboratory of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Ibadan, in Oyo State in August 2010. Scientists in Nigeria and six other African nations are experimenting with a fast-yielding, disease-resistant species of cassava. Farmers carry packets of cassava stems, which they received from officials of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Oshogbo in Osun State in August 2010. African farmers stand to make a potential profit from a new strain of cassava, whose industrial uses include the manufacture of tyres, adhesives, ethanol, pharmaceuticals, biofuels and livestock feeds. Laboratory workers arrange samples of different cassava species at the laboratory of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Ibadan, in Oyo State in August 2010. Developed in response to the 2008 global food crisis, the project is first aimed at tackling hunger in Africa -- particularly in drought-hit Chad and Niger. AFP - The "magic" cassava roots the Nigerian farmer pointed to might have made Charles Darwin smile -- and they may also turn out to be part of the 



Document Number: 9515
five billion US dollars worth of crop damage each year and serious distress to farmers in countries like India. Helicoverpa armigera is a major pest prevalent in 29 cotton producing countries across Asia, Australia, Africa and Southern Europe. Besides cotton, this moth attacks more than 100 different commercial crops including maize, wheat, sorghum, sunflower, chickpea, lupins, soybeans, tobacco, tomato, lettuce, sweet corn, capsicum and beans and flowers including chrysanthemums, gladioli and roses. Derek Russell and Philip Batterham, professors at the 'Bio21 Institute' of the University of Melbourne have been working closely with Keshav Kranthi of the Central Institute of Cotton Research in Nagpur (India) and a number of other groups in India, China and Pakistan, to develop technologies to aid farmers in their fight against this destructive moth. About 40 percent of the annual cost of growing cotton is spent on insecticides by the eight million cotton farmers spread across 11 states in India, while still failing to control the caterpillars. Cotton bollworm has often caused total crop loss driving hundreds of farmers in India to suicide. Besides making the pest resistant, indiscriminate spraying of insecticides has created ecological havoc. Russell says, "By the mid 1990s, Indian cotton farmers were 



Document Number: 5366
for food science ‚Äì could provide relief to millions of peanut allergy sufferers, and be an enormous boon to the entire peanut industry. Doug Speight of the N.C. A&T Office of Outreach and Technology Transfer said food companies are showing a strong interest in licensing the process, which does not degrade the taste or quality of treated peanuts, and might even render them easier to process for use as a food ingredient. Immunoassays showed 100 percent inactivation of peanut allergens in whole roasted kernels, and the processed peanuts showed no reaction in tests on human serums from severely allergic individuals. The inventor, Dr. Mohamed Ahmedna, is optimizing the process further to remove allergens from other foods. ‚ÄúWe are extremely pleased that we were able to find such a simple solution to a vexing problem that has enormous economic and public health ramifications, both for peanut sensitive individuals, and the food industry as a whole,‚Äù said Ahmedna, associate professor of food science in N.C. A&T‚Äôs School of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences. Peanut and tree nut allergies are the most severe of all food allergies, affecting approximately 3 million Americans, and causing 100 ‚Äì 150 deaths from anaphylactic shock annually and many 



Document Number: 8561
ready for them, asks Tatum Anderson? Millet rich in iron; wheat abundant in zinc; cassava tinged with extra beta-carotene. An array of crops bred to contain micronutrients that could fight the widespread problem of undernutrition is about to be unleashed on the developing world, beginning next year. The first meeting of international experts in biofortification heard last week (9‚Äì11 November) that, after almost a decade of research and development, high-iron pearl millet seeds will be released in India next year; and cassava and maize boosted with beta-carotene (which the body turns into vitamin A) will be released in Nigeria and Zambia in 2012. Sweet potato containing extra beta-carotene is already on the market. But will the undernourished embrace these solutions to the health problems that lack of nutrients brings? Experts at the meeting, the First Global Conference on Biofortification, are now turning their attention to winning over their customers ‚Äî and they are realising there are many hurdles. A lack of micronutrients such as iodine or zinc can lead to stunted growth, severe wasting, and intrauterine growth restriction and contributed to a large proportion of the 2.2 million deaths from undernutrition of children under five in 2005, according to a 



Document Number: 127
a New Look Jul 1, 2011 Vitamin A Maize on Offer at Experimental Biology 2011 Jun 21, 2011 ARCHIVE For Immediate Release September 7, 2010 Orange maize varieties often have higher amounts of vitamin A (Photo by: T. Rocheford) Washington, D.C. Scientists have shown for the first time that ‚Äòorange‚Äô maize is a good source of vitamin A. This means that orange maize, a variety of maize bred to improve nutrition, could provide vitamin A through the diet to millions of poor people at risk of vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A deficiency blinds up to 500,000 children annually and increases the risk of disease and death, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa. Many people in this region are too poor to afford expensive vitamin A-rich foods such as orange fruits, dark leafy vegetables, or meat. However, they eat large amounts of white maize‚Äîup to a pound‚Äîdaily. In this context, orange maize could provide a substantial portion of their vitamin A needs. ‚ÄúTraditionally, white maize porridge is a popular food among children and adults,‚Äù says Dr. Wendy White, of Iowa State University, who headed the study. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs even, usually, the first solid food given to infants. We prepared the orange maize porridge in 



Document Number: 6170
per cent of women suffering from anaemia, because their diet is based on cereals and tubers that are poor sources of absorbable iron. Such 'hidden hunger' occurs when families cannot afford enough micronutrient rich foods, like fresh vegetables or meat. However, as Country Manager for the HarvestPlus iron bean dissemination program, I believe we've found a sustainable, cost-effective way to increase the intake of iron for Rwanda's poorest citizens. Adding iron to Rwanda's staple crop A novel way to introduce more iron into someone's diet is to breed it into the crop that they most often eat. For us Rwandans this crop is beans. In Rwanda, beans are used to make a little food stretch a long way; most families boil a week's consumption at once, which is later mixed in at mealtimes with bits of potato, cassava, banana and maize. We eat about 200g per day, more than most other countries in the world. HarvestPlus and its partners (CIAT/PABRA and ISAR) have been adding more iron to beans through biofortification, a natural crossbreeding process. The target is to develop bean varieties that contain 94 micrograms of iron in every gram of bean. Eaten at every meal, such biofortified beans 



Document Number: 4725
method for biological control of aflatoxins. These are toxic chemicals of fungal origin, which contaminate maize and other major food crops, posing a chronic threat to human health in sub-Saharan Africa. See photos below story With the new method, strains of the fungi that produce aflatoxin are overwhelmed through the introduction of related but entirely harmless strains. These were identified and tested through several years of meticulous research supported by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and carried out in collaboration with the Agriculture Research Service of the US Department of Agriculture, University of Arizona in the USA, University of Bonn in Germany and University of Ibadan in Nigeria. Researchers found that inoculum containing the beneficial strains can be produced most efficiently on sorghum grain, resulting in a dry formulation, which can then be broadcast on moist soil in farmers‚Äô maize fields. Laboratory and field tests have demonstrated that the harmless strains spread quickly from the soil to maize plants, where they reduce aflatoxin-producing strains on maize grain by 91 to almost 100 percent. A single application is sufficient to control the problem in the crop treated, though a few additional applications may be required to achieve long-term control 



Document Number: 8292
Sudan, Kenya, Eritrea and the International Crop Research Institute (ICRISAT) are using biotechnological tools in locating and identifying Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) that gives resistance to Striga. QTL is a statistical method that links two types of information phenotypic data (trait measurements) and genotypic data (usually molecular markers)--in an attempt to explain the genetic basis of variation in complex traits. According to Dr Charles Mugoya, the programme manager of the Agro biodiversity and biotechnology programme of Asareca, knowing the location and identification of QTLs for Striga resistance is a useful tool in aiding marker assisted breeding/selection (MAB or MAS) of Sorghum for Striga resistance. MAS is an indirect selection process where a trait of interest is chosen not based on the trait itself but on a marker (morphological, biochemical or one based on DNA/RNA variation) linked to it. So far, QTLs underlying different resistance phenotypes have been identified and the scientists are now backcrossing populations to generate striga resistance QTLs into farmer preferred sorghum varieties. Mugoya said Striga hermonthica, also locally known as the witchweed, is a major constraint to sorghum production in particular and cereal production in general, especially in more marginal areas like semi-arid regions, where continuous cropping 



Document Number: 8822
brown stagnant water. A season's rice harvest can rot, and along with it, the family's prospective income. However, a solution may be at hand. At the Philippines-based International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), scientists are developing a rice variety with high tolerance to submersion under water for extended periods. IRRI has produce three widely grown varieties of rice that are flood tolerant - the Swarma and Mahsuri from India and the IR64 produced at IRRI‚Äôs facility in the Philippines (in Los Banos, Laguna Province) - David McKill, the head of IRRI‚Äôs plant-breeding division, told IRIN. Three more varieties from Laos, Bangladesh and India are being developed at Los Banos, he said. "These new varieties do not show any differences from the originals, except for submergence tolerance," Mackill stated in a research article in IRRI's in-house journal Rice Today, noting that work on the genetics of submergence tolerance began in the 1990s when researchers first mapped rice DNA to isolate a gene responsible for the phenomenon - Sub1 gene. "Rice is considered a semi-aquatic plant, and it thrives in the wettest agricultural environments," he said. "However, most rice varieties will be heavily damaged and die if they remain underwater for more than 



Document Number: 9838
seeds of the common Indian farmer stand for the traditional side. The war recently took an ugly turn when farmers in Haryana and Tamil Nadu destroyed the filed trial plots of the GM rice. The farmers were protesting against the sly move to introduce the genetically modified rice variety into the country. These experimental rice fields were being monitored by the Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Company (Mahyco) on behalf of the American agro-business firm Monsanto.The campaign against the GM rice got a shot in the arm a few weeks ago following the decision of certain European Union countries to ban the import of American rice, fearing contamination by the GM rice strain Liberty Line (LL-601). In fact, it was the detection of few grains of GM rice in the American rice consignments that forced the EU countries to suspend the trading in American rice. As a result of this, the world‚Äôs largest rice importer Ebro Puleva stopped trading in the US grown rice. Indian farmers who campaign against the GM rice trials celebrated their first victory recently following the Union commerce ministry‚Äôs decision to tell Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC) not to approve field trials of GM crops in Basmati rice 



Document Number: 6504
flooding by shooting up in height. http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v460/n7258/edsumm/e090820-14.html The paper was reported in both the science and popular media with headlines that were often dramatic, eg "Snorkel rice could feed millions" (BBC). Some of these reports mistakenly claimed that this was a GM rice. One widely circulated popular science piece, for example, was headlined, "Genetically Engineered Rice Plants Grow 'Snorkels' To Survive Floods." http://www.popsci.com/scitech/article/2009-08/snorkel-genes-allow-rice-plants-survive-floods http://esciencenews.com/sources/popsci/2009/08/19/genetically.engineered.rice.plants.grow.snorkels.to.survive.floods Jon Hamilton, a correspondent for National Public Radio's science desk, had his report on "snorkel rice" billed as: "Scientists are racing to genetically engineer strains of rice that can prevent the deadly famines that come with drought and floods in Asia. One new strain causes part of the plant to elongate, acting as a snorkel." http://www.npr.org/templates/rss/podlayer.php?id=2100615 http://www.wbur.org/news/npr/people/2100615 Such reports may have been behind comments claiming that "snorkel rice" provides, "A perfect example of the benefits of genetic modification of staple crops and why we need to fund research on them." http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/9cgv4/genetically_engineered_rice_grows_snorkel_during/ And blog comments such as: "But it's genetically modified food. We can't have that! Who cares if it feeds the world, it's still not organic and we all know organic foods keep us from getting sick. Or do we.." http://steve-lewis.blogspot.com/2009/08/snorkel-rice-could-feed-millions.html As Dr Antoniou's comments make 



Document Number: 338
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), said, ‚ÄúEarlier, we only provided and field-tested IRRI rice lines that were tolerant of flooding. Now, we assist government agencies and private seed companies to multiply and distribute seeds to farmers at a faster pace.‚Äù Field-testing a rice variety normally takes 4‚Äì5 years before it is released and another 2‚Äì3 years before it reaches farmers. Through targeted dissemination, IRRI is helping state governments identify specific flood-prone areas where seeds of the submergence-tolerant variety can be distributed, without having to wait until it is multiplied and distributed en masse. IRRI, celebrating its 50th year of conducting rice research, has been working with India's national and state governments, nonprofit organizations, farmers' organizations, research institutions, and public and private seed companies to promote Swarna-Sub1, a flood-tolerant version of the widely grown Swarna variety. ‚ÄúEven before the seeds are released, different research institutions are already multiplying these seeds,‚Äù Dr. Singh explained. ‚ÄúImmediately after release, we encourage state governments, as they distribute the seeds to other channels for large-scale multiplication, to also disseminate the seeds directly to farmers in target areas. Farmers need not wait for 2‚Äì3 years for mass distribution.‚Äù Swarna-Sub1 incorporates the SUB1 gene into the Indian mega-variety 



Document Number: 9042
combat the cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera), an agricultural pest that causes five billion US dollars worth of crop damage each year and serious distress to farmers in countries like India. Helicoverpa armigera is a major pest prevalent in 29 cotton producing countries across Asia, Australia, Africa and Southern Europe. Besides cotton, this moth attacks more than 100 different commercial crops including maize, wheat, sorghum, sunflower, chickpea, lupins, soybeans, tobacco, tomato, lettuce, sweet corn, capsicum and beans and flowers including chrysanthemums, gladioli and roses. Derek Russell and Philip Batterham, professors at the ‚ÄòBio21 Institute' of the University of Melbourne have been working closely with Keshav Kranthi of the Central Institute of Cotton Research in Nagpur (India) and a number of other groups in India, China and Pakistan, to develop technologies to aid farmers in their fight against this destructive moth. About 40 percent of the annual cost of growing cotton is spent on insecticides by the eight million cotton farmers spread across 11 states in India, while still failing to control the caterpillars. Cotton bollworm has often caused total crop loss driving hundreds of farmers in India to suicide. Besides making the pest resistant, indiscriminate spraying of insecticides has created ecological 



Document Number: 3069
The scope and adequacy of the GEAC environmental risk assessment ‚ÄúThe GEAC set too narrow a scope for environmental risk assessment (ERA) of hybrid Bt brinjal, and it is because of this overly narrow scope that the EC-II is not an adequate ERA‚Äù. -‚Äì‚Äúmost of the possible environmental risks of Bt brinjal have not been adequately evaluated; this includes risks to local varieties of brinjal and wild relatives, risks to biological diversity, and risk of resistance evolution in BFSB‚Äù. Prof David Andow David Andow is an acknowledged international expert on the environmental risks of GM crop plants. This 80 page comprehensive critique of Monsanto's Dossier and the Bt brinjal Expert Committee II Report (EC II), is an authoritative and meticulous scrutiny of the raw data of the Dossier. Andow lists some 37 studies of which perhaps 1 has been conducted and reported to a satisfactory level by Monsanto: ‚ÄúBriefly, EC-II relied on dubious scientific assumptions, did not focus on realistic environmental concerns, inadequately evaluated some important environmental concerns, and ignored other real environmental concerns‚Äù. I pick out the following critical points from his definitive environmental appraisal of Bt brinjal: India is the centre of the world's biological diversity in brinjal 



Document Number: 1573
http://indymedia.org.uk/en/2011/07/482850.html *Growers from across the country kick off the campaign against field testing. Saturday 23rd July saw growers and supporters from all over the UK and beyond descend on Norwich to help deliver 40 boxes of organic blight-resistant potatoes to the Sainsbury Laboratory to highlight the re-emergence of open-air field testing, and the GBP1.7 million of public money being spent in the hunt for a GM blight-resistant spud. Folk came from Wales, France, London, Devon, Lancaster, Manchester, Dorset, Liverpool, Bristol, Yorkshire, Bungay and Norwich itself. You can see photos of the event by clicking on http://www.flickr.com/photos/chickenpea111/sets/72157627303039592/ Backing from celebrity foodie Antonio Carluccio, combined with grassroots organising and the sheer absurdity of the GM research, meant that the event got extensive press coverage (see the links below). Most of the speeches were conducted in the city centre, next to the farmers' market, and featured the head of policy at the Soil Association, the Director of GM Freeze and a selection of farmers, who explained why GM is a risky, expensive and outdated technology, which is still failing to deliver commercial crops of any benefit to farmers or consumers. Peter Lundgren, a conventional farmer from Lincolnshire, described the ongoing research as "flogging 



Document Number: 9049
will not allow trials of genetically modified (GM) crops in the State. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday in Bangalore, the Minister said Karnataka had opposed Bt brinjal, and if media reports on Bt maize and Bt paddy trials in Bijapur and Koppal were true, the Government would oppose them as well. Katti said the State is firmly opposed to testing, research or field trials of GM crops. Officials of the Agriculture Department who have been asked to look into the allegations of the trials being conducted, would submit a report in a day or two. In case trials have been conducted, notices would be served to the parties concerned. Companies and universities that obtain permission from the Centre to conduct the trials, have to inform the State Government as well. "However, till date, no company has informed us about conducting trials. We will also request the Centre not to allow trials in Karnataka," Katti said. Katti's remarks assume significance in the wake of reports of some agriculture varsities being keen on conducting GM crop trials, while farmers' associations and activists are opposing them. Herbicide-tolerant maize has been proved as a successful crop and the university wanted to conducted trials in 



Document Number: 1856
birth defects ‚Äì is the public being kept in the dark?" This report showed that industry (including Monsanto) knew from its own studies conducted in the 1980s that glyphosate caused birth defects in lab animals at high doses; from the 1990s, industry knew that these effects also occurred at lower and mid doses.¬† The German government, the "rapporteur" member state for glyphosate, knew from 1998 from its own reading of these same industry studies. Germany explained away the birth defects by redefining them as "developmental variation[s]" - along with other 'creative' reasoning. The EU Commission knew from 2002, when it approved glyphosate, incorrectly claiming that the birth defects only occurred at high doses that poisoned the mothers. This is the 9-year-old document referred to so blithely by the German government official in the article below--who suggests that it fully informs the public of the risks of glyphosate! Only last year, the German Federal Office of Consumer Protection and Food Safety (BVL) told the Commission that there was "no evidence of teratogenicity" (ability to cause birth defects) for glyphosate. In making this claim, BVL was ignoring not only independent studies showing that glyphosate and Roundup cause birth defects, including at low 



Document Number: 7119
cotton fields have gotten so tenacious - some with stems 4-inches around - that farmers are paying itinerant crews to chop them down by hand. "In the Bootheel they're hiring people to go out there with hoes," said Blake Hurst, president of the Missouri Farm Bureau. "I swung a hoe for 15 years, and I fail to see the romance in it." The problem, farmers and weed scientists say, is getting worse: Weeds are becoming increasingly resistant to Monsanto's Roundup, sold generically as glyphosate, forcing farmers to use other herbicides or "multiple modes of action." But during this season especially farmers are finding that these other modes of action aren't working either - and there appears to be little relief on the horizon. In Missouri, herbicide dealers have sold out of Cobra, one of the herbicides most widely used in tandem with glyphosate. "Are they running out of options?" asked Aaron Hager, a weed scientist with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. "The simple answer is yes." Farmers across the Midwest and South are, increasingly, using herbicide cocktails to combat weeds in cotton, corn and soybean fields. "They're using about every bullet they have in their gun," said Derek Samples, 



Document Number: 3215
to make incredible claims for the supposedly beneficial impact of Bt cotton on the country. So it's important to note that the source of the concerns about Bt cotton reported in the articles below is Keshav Kranthi, the director of India's Central Institute for Cotton Research, who is pro-GM and a longstanding supporter of Bt cotton.¬† EXTRACTS: ...productivity [from Bt cotton] has been stagnant for the past five years, according to the chief of the Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR), Keshav Kranthi. More worrying, says Kranthi, is the increasing problems of sap-sucking insects, such as leaf hoppers, aphids, whiteflies and thrips, on the vast majority of susceptible Bt hybrids. New pathogens, such as ‚Äòleaf streak virus‚Äô, have started affecting the new Bt hybrids. Insect populations of mealybugs, gall midges, mosquito bugs and safflower caterpillars, which were hitherto unknown, have also emerged as concerns.¬† When Monsanto says ‚ÄúIndian farmers are the world‚Äôs fastest adopters of Bt cotton technology‚Äù, it actually highlights the problem. US anthropologist Glenn Stone, who has been studying the questions surrounding the use of Bt technology in India for over a decade, finds that ‚Äúfarmers are on a seed and pesticide treadmill, and this is right at 



Document Number: 747
scientific opinion across the world." The closures, which will affect the Departments of Plant and Invertebrate Ecology, Applied Crop Science, and Plant Pathology and Microbiology, are reportedly [1] due to "reduction in effort" in areas including entomology, nematology and herbicide resistance. The decision comes less than two years after the Royal Society reported that several core agroecological disciplines are in "decline" and called for funding bodies and universities to reverse this trend. [2] Director of Rothamsted Research Professor Maurice Maloney, who made the decision to cut the Departments, was quoted in the recent House of Lords report Innovation in EU Agriculture as supporting, "[A] need to boost soil science, which had been neglected in recent decades." [3] Professor Maloney was appointed in 2010 after a career working in the genetic modification of crops. [4] Many international and European studies have highlighted the need to focus on agroecological research to enable farmers to meet the challenge of increasing food supplies in the face of increasing energy prices, growing demand for fertilisers and water, and diminishing supplies of raw materials, as well as the need to restore biodiversity and other natural resources such as soil, fresh water and the marine environment. [5] 



Document Number: 1697
reported last week, the USDA's recent surprise decision not to regulate genetically modified bluegrass poked yet more holes in an already-porous regime for overseeing GM crops‚Äîessentially to the point of regulatory collapse. There were a few important strands I wasn't able to wrestle into the story. The main one is an odd letter that USDA secretary Tom Vilksack sent Scotts Miracle-Gro as an addendum to the agency's response to Scott's GM bluegrass petition. Vilsack's letter, dated July 1, acknowledges concerns that GM bluegrass will contaminate non-GM bluegrass‚Äîthat is, that the Roundup Ready gene will move through wind-blown pollen and work its way into non-modified varieties. This is the process known as "gene flow," and it has already been well-established for GM corn and other modified crops. Since bluegrass shows up (among other places) in cow pastures, organic dairy and beef farmers face the risk of suddenly having their animals nosh on fields full of a GM crop, which would jeopardize their organic status. As the the secretary put it in his letter: ¬† ¬† "The USDA recognizes that if this GE variety were to be commercially released, producers wishing to grow non-GE Kentucky bluegrass will likely have concerns related to 



Document Number: 8750
include field trials. GMO maize damage may total billions, says expert http://www.caboodle.hu/nc/news/news_archive/single_page/?tx_ttnews The damage to Hungary's agriculture caused through sowing genetically modified seeds and to the country's GMO-free status will total billions of forints [millions of euros], an expert told MTI on Wednesday. Ecologist and forensic expert Imre Lanszki insisted that Hungary will not be in a position to reject GMO in the future, and Hungarian seeds will be at a disadvantage, which may compromise the productivity of national farming. Lanszki said that the GMO maize ploughed under early this month would have affected animal farming when used as fodder; moreover, the maize could have been used for human purposes. Some 400 hectares of maize were destroyed throughout Hungary after the crops had been found to have been grown with GMO maize. Authorities have been checking for GMO crops since the beginning of this year as a new regulation came in force this March which stipulates GMO checks before seeds are introduced to the market. The checks will continue despite the fact that seed traders are obliged to make sure that their products are GMO free. Farmers in Baranya County in south-western Hungary had to plough under around 160 hectares 



Document Number: 2984
bed with multinational corporations http://www.powerbase.info/index.php/Commonwealth_Scientific_and_Industrial_Research_Organisation The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) is promoted as Australia's pre-eminent public scientific research body. Although ostensibly 'publicly funded' CSIRO has, in reality, been encouraged to get 30% of its funding from business with the CSIRO top management encouraging its staff to go to 40%. As a point of comparison, only about 10% of the funding of Europe's leading plant biotech institute, the John Innes Centre, is thought to come directly from industry although the JIC is considered highly industrially aligned. According to John Stocker, CSIRO's former chief executive, 'Working with the transnationals makes a lot of sense, in the context of market access. There are very few Australian companies that have developed market access in the United States, in Europe and in Japan, the world's major marketplaces. Yes, we do find that it is often the best strategy to get into bed with these companies.' (Australian Broadcasting Commission, 1992). Richard Hindmarsh in an article in the Journal of Australian Political Economy (No 44.), 'Consolidating Control: Plant Variety Rights, Genes and Seeds', describes CSIRO as having a long history of involvement with intensive agricultural R&amp;D and collaboration with agribusiness multinationals, and as having 



Document Number: 810
removed as India's environment minister, it looks like India's regulators (the GEAC) are back to business as usual, i.e. doing industry's bidding. In this case, they are dismantling a clause giving States a right of veto over GM crop trials held in their territory.¬† The clause, which had been instigated under pressure from Ramesh, is being revoked after heavy lobbying (see items 2 and 3) by the industry pressure group ABLE-AG: the Association of Biotech Led Enterprises-Agriculture Group. Members of ABLE-AG include: *MAHYCO [Monsanto's Indian partner] EXTRACTS: ...Former union environment and forests minister Jairam Ramesh in March had asked the GEAC to immediately withdraw its permission to Monsanto for field trials of Bt maize in Bihar. Ramesh's move came after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar told him that he was opposed to field trials of Bt maize. Jairam had asked the GEAC to give state government at least one month to agree or disagree on field trials for GM crops, given the fact that agriculture is a State subject. "In fact, ideally, prior approval of the State concerned should be taken before allowing such trials," he had stated. (item 2) "It's a detrimental clause...it will delay the process of adoption 



Document Number: 5531
GM wheat that has been released across Australia has not been proven safe. It hasn't been tested for toxic and allergic effects. All evidence shows that GM wheat cannot be contained; it will contaminate our food supply and the environment. The Australian Government has refused to protect Australians from harm caused by the release of unsafe genetically modified wheat. GM organisms are living organisms that can multiply and cross-breed. They pose a threat of irreversible damage to Australia's environment and our food supply. Greenpeace has taken action to prevent contamination of our food supply and environment. *Why is Greenpeace opposing research ‚Äì isn't research necessary to test the impact of GM? Greenpeace does not oppose safe research; we oppose open, risky experiments with something as fundamental as our food and the environment we depend on for life. Greenpeace does not oppose GM research in the lab, but we do oppose experiments known as 'GM field trials'. These 'GM field trials' involve open, genetic experiments in the environment. Greenpeace opposes field trials of GM organisms as the risks from such open experiments cannot be contained. The many incidents of contamination of the food chain with GM arising from field trials (e.g. 



Document Number: 5570
genetically modified wheat. In the early hours of this morning a group of Greenpeace protesters scaled the fence of the CSIRO experimental station at Ginninderra in the capital's north. Greenpeace says activists were wearing Hazmat protective clothing and were equipped with weed string trimmers. They say the entire crop of genetically modified wheat has been destroyed. About half a hectare of GM wheat is being grown on the site, as part of Australia's first outdoor trials. No genetically modified wheat strain had ever been approved for cropping in Australia before. Last month the CSIRO received permission to conduct Australia's first trial in which humans will eat GM wheat. The wheat's genes have been modified to lower the glycemic index and increase fibre to create a product which will improve bowel health and increase nutritional value. Animal feeding trials of up to three months have been conducted, with human trials at least six months away. Greenpeace says it has taken action because of concerns over health, cross-contamination and the secrecy surrounding the experiments. Campaigner Laura Kelly says the Federal Government needs to put an end to testing GM wheat in Australia. She says parts of the United States and many countries 



Document Number: 2774
to arrive in Europe these days. There are accusations against the environmental organization WWF, which issues its certificate for genetically modified plants. The attempt by the international agriculture and foodstuff industry to brush up its image is entering a new phase. After years of preparations, the first shipment of allegedly sustainably produced soybeans is to reach Europe in the next few days by ship: 80,000 tons of soybeans produced by the Brazilian producer Andr√© Maggi, destined for the farmers of the large-scale dairy enterprise Friesland-Campina and the meat-processing company Vion, both Dutch companies. Another 5,000 tons are going to the US, to the food manufacturer Unilever. The dispute about whether these soybeans were actually produced in a sustainable manner has been ongoing for months and is now about to start in earnest because this raw material, allegedly grown in an environmentally friendly manner, contains genetically soy. In Europe, that is not considered sustainable at all, especially since there are more and more reports about the health risks involved in the growing of genetically modified soybeans. Because of the Brazilian shipment, genetically modified oil and meal will end up in milk, in feed for pigs and chickens, or even in margarine 



Document Number: 7503
of escape to wild gene pool Public release date: 13-Jul-2011 This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it If genetically modified Atlantic salmon were to escape from captivity they could succeed in breeding and passing their genes into the wild, Canadian researchers have found. Their research, published in Evolutionary Applications, explores the potential reproductive implications of GM salmon as they are considered for commercial farming. "The use of growth-enhancing transgenic technologies has long been of interest to the aquaculture industry and now genetically modified Atlantic salmon is one of the first species to be considered for commercial farming. Yet, little is known about the potential impact on wild salmon populations if the GM species were to escape captivity," said lead author Darek Moreau from the Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada. One of the key concerns about a transgene escape is the "Trojan gene effect", caused when a GM fish outcompetes or reproduces equally against wild rivals, however if the resulting offspring are genetically inferior this could lead a species towards eventual extinction. Until now there is no empirical 



Document Number: 605
reported objective of Monsanto, the multi-national seed and agro-chemical company notorious for suing and jailing farmers for the "crime‚Äù" of reusing seeds they purchased from the company! If you are shocked by Monsanto's aim of controlling the entire world's food production system, what is more mind-boggling is how much progress it has already made towards its goal. Monsanto is today the world‚Äôs largest seed company, already controlling 23% of the proprietary seed market. The annual profit of this single company is Rs. 22,500 crores, more than the GDP of 48 countries! Known for its unscrupulous practices, it is¬† now re-writing the laws and manipulating politicians and officials in the developing world to push its GM (genetic modification) technology, herbicides and proprietary hybrids. Recently, gross violations were exposed in its field trials of GM maize in Karnataka showing the impunity with which the company defies biosafety concerns. If we as a nation want to protect our food sovereignty, if we want to retain control on what we grow and what we eat, this is the time for us to act decisively. This is a call to all like-minded organizations, alliances and individuals to come together for simultaneous actions on Aug. 9th, 



Document Number: 481
l'industrie? √Ä l'heure du cinquanti√®me anniversaire de la cr√©ation de l'organisation, le groupe de radiot√©l√©vision allemand WDR a enqu√™t√© dans les coulisses de cette organisation environnementale internationale si connue. Son documentaire explosif illustre √† quel point l'organisation est m√™l√©e aux int√©r√™ts des industriels et √† leurs milliards de profits. Imaginez des b√©b√©s tigres, des oursons polaires ou de jeunes orangs-outans... Ne voil√† t-il pas un tableau attendrissant, qui suscite automatiquement la sympathie? Une image imparable pour √©mouvoir les enfants. Pourtant, un seul animal les surpassera toujours tous : le panda, la douceur incarn√©e! Le panda est l'effigie de la tr√®s c√©l√®bre organisation World Wide Fund for Nature (√©galement connue sous son ancienne appellation ¬´ World Wildlife Fund ¬ª). D'apr√®s une √©tude de march√©, cette organisation de protection de la nature, la plus puissante au monde, a l'une des images les plus cr√©dibles au monde. Depuis 50 ans, elle incarne les enjeux de protection du climat, de d√©veloppement durable et de pr√©servation de la diversit√© biologique de la Terre. Et elle est toujours en qu√™te de donateurs‚Ä¶ au service de la nature. Les enfants n'h√©sitent d'ailleurs pas √† casser leur tirelire ou encore √† collectionner les photos d'animaux que le g√©ant 



Document Number: 7190
A genetically engineered grass expected to hit U.S. markets without government review could speed the evolution of hard-to-control weeds, and perhaps require a return to toxic herbicides scrapped decades ago. On July 1 - a Friday afternoon, a time usually reserved for potentially controversial news - the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced that Scotts Miracle-Gro's herbicide-resistant Kentucky bluegrass would be exempt from tests typically required of transgenic crops. Scotts Miracle-Gro is the largest U.S. retailer of grass seed, and the modified grass could be widely used in residential lawns. It's resistant to glyphosate, a front-line herbicide known commercially as Roundup. The grass will survive extra doses of Roundup, allowing more than usual to be applied. That's the problem, said agricultural biotechnology expert Douglas Gurian-Sherman of the Union of Concerned Scientists. "The more a chemical is used consistently, the more likely that somebody's weeds will become resistant. That's standard, agreed-upon science," said Gurian-Sherman. "The way that Roundup is used because of transgenic crops exacerbates that problem." Herbicide resistance evolves in much the same way as antibiotic resistance: When a weed- or bug-killing compound is applied, any weeds or bugs lucky enough to be genetically resistant will have the best chance to 



Document Number: 675
over a huge area." In Midwest, Flutters May Be Far Fewer http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/12/science/12butterfly.html?_r=2&amp;partner=rssnyt&amp;emc=rss [image caption: HABITAT The use of a herbicide has taken away a home for monarchs.] As recently as a decade ago, farms in the Midwest were commonly marred ‚Äî at least as a farmer would view it ‚Äî by unruly patches of milkweed amid the neat rows of emerging corn or soybeans.¬† Not anymore. Fields are now planted with genetically modified corn and soybeans resistant to the herbicide Roundup, allowing farmers to spray the chemical to eradicate weeds, including milkweed. And while that sounds like good news for the farmers, a growing number of scientists fear it is imperiling the monarch butterfly, whose spectacular migrations make it one of the most beloved of insects ‚Äî "the Bambi of the insect world," as an entomologist once put it. Monarchs lay their eggs on milkweed, and their larvae eat it. While the evidence is still preliminary and disputed, experts like Chip Taylor say the growing use of genetically modified crops is threatening the orange-and-black butterfly by depriving it of habitat. "This milkweed has disappeared from at least 100 million acres of these row crops," said Dr. Taylor, an insect ecologist 



Document Number: 8708
they, "[D]ecided some time ago to not initiate any new projects that are focused exclusively on the European market." GM Freeze says this shows financial decisions are finally catching up with market realities.¬† BASF's position was sent in an email on¬† ¬†by a BASF Plant Science Communications Manager. [1] The chemical and biotech giant's recent GM development work for¬† ¬†has focussed on potatoes, including the controversial Amflora, a GM potato for industrial starch production that gained EU commercial approval in 2010 despite the presence on an antibiotic resistance marker gene (ARM). ARMs that have an "adverse effects on human health and the environment" are banned in the EU (Directive 2011/18 Article 4.3). Experts are concerned that ARMs could transfer resistance to antibiotics into harmful bacteria, adding to medical problems associated with decreased effectiveness of medicines due to increased antibiotic resistance. Several EU countries have banned Amflora, taking the view that the ARM in it is potentially harmful. The Hungarian Government is taking legal action against the European Commission for granting Amflora approval. BASF's 2010 application for a second GM starch altered potato (Amadea, BPS-A1020-5) is in the early stages of the EU regulatory process. Amadea was responsible for the 2010 



Document Number: 4929
removed from the hyperbole. The cost of Bt cotton seed in Burkina Faso has quickly more than tripled in return for no increase in yields ‚Äì exactly the opposite of the claims used to promote Bt cotton to Burkina Faso's farmers of massive increases in yield. These kinds of wildly misleading promotionals for Bt cotton are already familiar from India - see item 2 - and South Africa:¬† http://gmwatch.org/latest-listing/1-news-items/12693 EXTRACT: ...in 2003, a pro-GM propaganda campaign was launched. In all media and organised forums on the subject, we heard the fabulous promises of GMOs: four times higher yields, fourfold savings on inputs. ...The increase in the cost of the [Bt cotton] seed, from 1600 FCFA [24 Euros/34 USD] per hectare for conventional seeds last year to 54000 FCFA [82 Euros/115 USD] hectare for GM seeds this year, is not accompanied by increasing yield as was promised.¬† Burkina Faso is a Trojan Horse for GMOs in Africa Interview with Ousmane Tiendr√©b√©ogo, Secretary General of the National Union of Agropastoral Workers (Syntapa) Journal of Alternatives, June 28 2011 [Unofficial English translation by Claire Robinson of GMWatch] Ousmane Tiendr√©b√©ogo, Secretary General of the National Union of Workers of the Agro-Pastoral (Syntapa), and Burkina 



Document Number: 7090
trick, making a controversial announcement on the¬† ¬†before a long weekend, when most people are daydreaming about what beer to buy on the way home from work, or are checking movie times online. But that's precisely what the US Department of Agriculture pulled¬† In an innocuous-sounding press release titled "USDA Responds to Regulation Requests Regarding ¬†Bluegrass," agency officials announced their decision not to regulate a "Roundup Ready" strain of Kentucky bluegrass-that is, a strain genetically engineered to withstand glyphosate, Monsanto's widely used herbicide, which we know as Roundup. The maker of the novel grass seed, Scotts Miracle Gro, is now free to sell it far and wide. So you'll no doubt be seeing Roundup Ready bluegrass blanketing lawns and golf courses near you-and watching anal neighbors and groundskeepers literally dousing the grass in weed killer without fear of harming a single precious blade. Which is worrisome enough. But even more worrisome is the way this particular product was approved. According to Doug Gurian-Sherman, senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists' Food and Environment Program, the documents released by the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) along with the announcement portend a major change in how the feds 



Document Number: 1106
has yet come of those hearings.¬† "I was told by people they were definitely going after Monsanto. And nothing has happened. She wanted to go after Monsanto and she was stopped. That's my feeling. It's been two years. They have had plenty of time to haul them into court." "The people they promised to go after and hang high are being shaken down to provide the billion dollar Obama campaign fund. Varney was shut down by Obama's political machine."¬† "They raised our hopes and nothing happened. I feel sucker punched." What Happens to Antitrust Inquiry? http://www.dailyyonder.com/thursday-roundup-what-happens-antitrust-inquiry/2011/07/07/3417 The Obama administration's top antitrust officer, Christine Varney, is stepping down after two and a half years. She will join a large Washington, D.C., law firm, Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore.¬† What does that have to do with rural America? Plenty. Last year, Varney and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack hosted a series of workshops around the country to talk about anti-trust problems in the food business. Thousands turned out for discussions that looked at concentration in the seed business, among meat processors, in the chicken industry and among food retailers. Nothing has yet come of those hearings.¬† "She played a high profile role in 



Document Number: 9238
genetically modified wheat are allowed to continue, Greenpeace says. A report by the environmental group accuses the government research organisation of "serious oversights" when it comes to managing the risks of its field trials currently taking place across the country. "The economic implications of GM wheat are dire," Greenpeace spokeswoman Laura Kelly said in a statement¬† Advertisement: Story continues below Every one of Australia's global wheat market competitors, including¬† , had rejected GM wheat, Ms Kelly said. "They were not convinced by global biotech companies that it would not contaminate their natural wheat crops and threaten their billion-dollar export markets," she said. The CSIRO, however, says its research will benefit local farmers. "Our number one priority is that Australian industry and farmers realise the benefits of our grains research first and foremost," CSIRO spokesman Huw Morgan told AAP on Thursday. "All GM wheat research conducted by the CSIRO has met the strict regulatory requirements that are set down by the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator." CropLife, an industry group representing the plant science industry, said the Greenpeace report entitled Australia's Wheat Scandal was a fiction. "(It) misrepresents modern crop breeding so extensively that it should be regarded as nothing 



Document Number: 9078
Meet 12 noon, The Forum,¬† : Countering the GM comeback camp. A day long camp to get productive and plan the next stages of the campaign. Camping spaces available Friday pm onwards costing GBP7 per night. Come equipped with a camping stove for self-catering. The site is 5 mins from a regular bus route to the city centre. http://www.stopgm.org.uk/gathering-momentum.html This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it or to book coach seats / accommodation ring 07959 506 673. http://www.gmfreeze.org/news-releases/159/ GBP1.28 million of public money for a crop with "no market" An application to field test a GM wheat in the¬† ¬†should be rejected by Defra, say GM Freeze, because there is no scientific or agricultural justification for it and no market willing to buy it. The groups says the GBP1.28 million in public money already poured into the crop by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council should have been better spent. Previous attempts to develop GM wheat in the UK were abandoned 



Document Number: 7110
almost entirely shaped by the biotech industry: "What Monsanto wished for from , Monsanto -- and, by extension, the biotechnology industry -- got. Even longtime Washington hands said that the control this nascent industry exerted over its own regulatory destiny -- through the Environmental Protection Agency, the Agriculture Department and ultimately the Food and Drug Administration -- was astonishing."¬† But the latest move by the US Dept of Agriculture (USDA) looks set to substantially reduce even the weak existing regulation of GM crops. What makes this particularly ominous is that the crop the USDA has chosen to exempt from federal regulation is common in pastures in many parts of the US, either intentionally or as an invasive, so it will ultimately add to the growing problem of contamination of organic agriculture, which GM alfalfa is already set to worsen.¬† That this deregulatory decison is based in political expediency rather than science is emphasised by the fact that even the USDA-APHIS assessment tool showed there's a high chance bluegrass will be a noxious weed, but they then went to great lengths to dismiss their own analysis! U.S.D.A. Ruling on Bluegrass Stirs Cries of Lax Regulation http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/business/energy-environment/cries-of-lax-regulation-after-usda-ruling-on-bluegrass.html?_r=1 The Agriculture Department has exempted 



Document Number: 8244
of maize in¬† , the South Africans have had terrible problems disposing of it, even at very low prices, because it is GM and so unacceptable in most African countries. Kenya's millers, of course, want to take advantage of the low prices at which the South Africans are trying to offload their unwanted grain, and so they've been aggressively lobbying the Kenyan government to allow the imports.¬† ¬†has also long been targeted by US- and biotech industry backed lobby groups, like USAID, ISAAA and the Syngenta Foundation, who are also desperate to open the country to GM crops. http://www.gmwatch.org/gm-myths/11132 EXTRACTS: "We need protection from the government from these unscrupulous traders who can sell anything to the public just for their financial gain," said Lari MP David Njuguna. Parliamentary Agriculture committee chairman John Mututho also opposes import of GM foods. Last week African Biodiversity Network and the Unga Revolution claimed a consignment of GM maize was already in¬† "We can easily import GMO free maize from¬† ¬†who had a bumper harvest last season," she said. [item 1] ...activists reiterate that Kenya is ill-equipped to handle massive infiltration of GM maize against a backdrop of weak legal, political and policy safeguards. Justus 



Document Number: 9820
for any damage." BASF Said to Consider Genetically Modified Crop Exit in¬† Sheenagh Matthews and Richard Weiss http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/basf-said-to-consider-genetically-modified-crop-exit-in-germany.html BASF SE (BAS), the world's biggest chemical maker, may withdraw genetically modified crop research from Germany in response to growing political opposition, three people familiar with discussions said. The maker of the Amflora scientific potato is considering the future of its research facility in rural Limburgerhof in southwestern Germany, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans aren't public. A move to the U.S. is possible for the plant biotechnology operations, which employ 700, said one of the people. Germany plans to close all 17 of its nuclear reactors by 2022, exiting atomic power after a meltdown in¬† ¬†stoked safety concerns. The move has strengthened the Green Party, which rejects nuclear energy and is now a junior coalition partner in BASF‚Äôs home state. The risks of genetically modified organisms are difficult to calculate, the Greens say. "GMOs may be just like atomic energy," said Ulrike Hoefken, the Green Party's regional environment minister. "The risks are masked and big benefits are claimed. But it's the general public who is left with the costs for any damage." The flight of 



Document Number: 3150
many donors have reportedly An English-subtitled interview with Wilfried Huismann, the maker of the documentary 'The silence of the Pandas', is EXCERPTS: since 2010 Monsanto's genetically modified soybeans have been certified as "sustainable" by the "Round Table on Responsible Soy" (RTRS). The certification system was created at the initiative of the WWF. Hartmut Vogtmann, head of the Deutscher Naturschutzring (German League for Nature Conservation and Environmental Protection), is clearly outraged at this. In an internal letter to Detlev Drenckhahn, president of the German WWF division, he warns insistently against participating in the "Round Table on Responsible Soy". In the letter, obtained by sueddeutsche.de, Vogtmann argues that according to recent studies, through the cultivation of soy, the use of pesticides has "increased tremendously ‚Ä¶ because more and more weeds are becoming resistant to Roundup, which is used in the cultivation of soybeans". Its active ingredient, glyphosate, "causes malformations in embryos and leads to higher rates of cancer," he writes with respect to an investigation, and concludes: The Round Table, co-founded by the WWF, is "artificially keeping a failed system of agriculture alive". ... Even before its initial screening, the film clearly stirred the German affiliate of the WWF. Attempts were made, 



Document Number: 3241
the effects of GM organisms¬†¬†¬†¬† Consumers International (CI)i and its member organisations celebrated victory today as regulators from more than 100 countries agreed on long overdue guidance on the labelling of genetically modified (GM) food. The Codex Alimentarius Commissionii, made up of the world's food safety regulatory agencies, has been labouring for two decades to come up with consensus guidance on this topic. In a striking reversal of their previous position, on Tuesday, during the annual Codex summit in Geneva, the US delegation dropped its opposition to the GM labelling guidance document, allowing it to move forward and become an official Codex text. The new Codex agreement means that any country wishing to adopt GM food labelling will no longer face the threat of a legal challenge from the World Trade Organization (WTO). This is because national measures based on Codex guidance or standards cannot be challenged as a barrier to trade.¬† This will have immediate implications for consumers. Edita Vilcapoma of the Peruvian consumer group ASPEC, representing Consumers International at the Codex meeting in Geneva, said:¬† "Peru's recent introduction of GM food labelling faced the threat of a legal challenge from the WTO. This new Codex agreement now means 



Document Number: 7318
stripped of his hard-won organic accreditation over 70 per cent of his property last December. He said the decision forced him to break sales contracts in Australia and overseas. The case will allege his neighbour, Michael Baxter, was negligent in allowing his GM canola to blow on to the property. Mr Baxter could not be contacted yesterday, but the ABC reported earlier this year he intended to defend himself against the claim. Mr Marsh told The Australian yesterday that his livelihood had been devastated and the dispute had split the farming community southeast of Perth. "The last thing that I want to do is to do this to a neighbour that I grew up with and went to school with . . . but this is a real serious problem we've got," he said. "I have to remove all the GM material and seeds off the property, and when you've got hundreds of plants that blow on to your property and each plant has got thousands of seeds on it, how do you remove all those seeds?" Lawyer Mark Walter from Slater and Gordon would not reveal the size of the damages sought. He said a writ would be lodged 



Document Number: 9636
voted to strengthen a draft EU law giving member states a new right to ban genetically modified (GM) crops from being grown in their territories. Greenpeace EU agriculture policy adviser Stefanie Hundsdorfer said: The European Parliament today added real punch to draft laws to protect our farms and food. But let's not forget that GM contamination doesn't respect borders. National bans are no substitute for thorough safety testing at a European level, something the EU is failing to do so far. "We and a growing majority of the public remain seriously concerned about unanswered health and environmental questions around GM crops. Ecological farming is the correct response to the challenges of food security, climate change and long-term productivity." Greenpeace welcomed that parliament voted to: * Strengthen the draft legislation by recognising environmental grounds for bans, including the development of herbicide resistant weeds and biodiversity impacts. * Allow bans where a lack of information is preventing thorough safety testing. GM seed companies are notoriously secretive about their products. * Changing the legal basis of bans from trade to environment, making any ban based on environmental grounds more robust if challenged in court. * Oblige biotech companies to give access to the 



Document Number: 5285
maize is being conducted. This comes just two days after the Times of India published an article exposing how a senior agriculture ministry scientists had bent the rules to get clearance for trials of GM rice to be conducted by his wife! http://gmwatch.eu/latest-listing/1-news-items/13298 The first item below is the Greenpeace press release relating to Monsanto's biosafety violations. The second is a letter sent to India's Environment Minister, Jairam Ramesh, by the Coalition for a GM-Free India with endorsements from hundreds of organisations and concerned individuals from all over India, including farmers' organisations, consumer groups, environmentalists and environmental organisations, academics, activists, media representatives, concerned individuals etc. There are also two former Ministers of Kerala who have signed on, two recipients of the Padma Shri award (one of India's highest civilian awards), and so on.¬† This gives some sense of the extent of the growing outrage at the way GM crops are being regulated in India, and Monsanto's brazen disregard of biosafety issues. Monsanto caught red-handed violating rules! Greenpeace India, Press release, July 4 2011 http://www.greenpeace.org/india/en/news/Monsanto-caught-red-handed-violating-rules/ *Civil society and farmer unions demand action against the company and an immediate ban of GM field trials in India Bangalore: After Monsanto was caught red-handed 



Document Number: 375
Yet on my first voyage to Australia as the executive director of Greenpeace International, I am devastated to find myself in a country set to become the first in the world to produce genetically modified (GM) wheat. Nine trials of GM wheat are currently being planted across five states and territories, with the Australian Government predicting it will have GM bread on supermarket shelves by 2015. As the head of a global NGO that campaigns on food security around the world, I am here to support Greenpeace Australia's efforts to stop control of this crucial food staple from falling into the hands of transnational GM food companies. Oxfam reported in 2011 that a handful of manufacturers, producers and retailers already control 70 per cent of decisions made in the global food system.[1] The world's top four seed companies - Monsanto, Dupont, Syngenta and Bayer - now control over half of the world's seed sales. These are also the GM companies pushing for control of Australian wheat. , and someone who has seen first-hand starvation in¬† ¬†I am often asked how it is that I can be opposed to GM. This questioning assumes that GM leads to healthier, sustainable and more 



Document Number: 6665
modified rice contaminated the food supply and hurt their crop prices. The litigation goes back to 2006, when Bayer disclosed that an experimental strain of genetically altered rice was found in U.S. food supplies. No human health problems have been associated with the contamination, but that wasn't known at the time. "Back in 2006, this rice had not been approved for human consumption," said Don Downing, a St. Louis-based attorney who represents some of the farmers who sued. The fear that the rice was unsafe, along with the notion that genetically altered rice was somehow impure, quashed sales in major markets including the European Union, which has tight restrictions on genetically modified crops. So, farmers from Arkansas, which produces about half of the nation's rice, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri and Texas, sued Bayer, saying the accident closed off critical export markets and caused the price of rice to drop. The settlement reached Friday will extend to all U.S. farmers who planted long-grain rice between 2006 and 2010. Downing, who has represented farmers in the case since 2006, said the agreement was likely the largest settlement in the history of genetically altered crops. "I don't think there's any settlement involving genetically modified 



Document Number: 2796
the GE-free regions' movement seems to be gaining momentum in¬† : the city of Nijmegen was declared GE-free last night! I attach a news message I wrote about it for GMWatch and GENET. I should add that although I live in Nijmegen, I was not in the citizens' working group who started this... It was a true citizens' initiative, which I think adds to its relevance. 1.Dutch city of Nijmegen GE-free In the Netherlands, the Community Council of Nijmegen last night declared the city GE-free. After¬† , this is only the third GE-free region in the country, whose national government considers itself neutral as to GE agriculture, but is seen as a staunch supporter of it by industry, other governments and civil society alike. The city of Culemborg declared itself GE-free in 2004, but after that no Dutch region was added to the growing movement of GE-free regions in Europe for a long time.¬† , however, the province of Friesland followed, declaring that it would refuse both commercial GE crops and field trials until a debate between farmers, politicians and experts would allow the provincial administration to take a final position on the issue. Both in Culemborg and Friesland, the 



Document Number: 8642
future of GM foods. (item 2) Find out about the GMO 'Right2Know' March from New York City to the White House: Oct. 1-16 This bold mobilization plans to raise awareness and pressure the government about the lack of labeling of GM foods in the US.¬†¬† The 2-week GMO Right2Know March will feature daily events between New York and Washington, D.C., October 1-16 as thousands of marchers are expected to walk part or all of the 313 miles from the United Nations' Headquarters to the White House. The marchers are looking for support from communities along the route which can be viewed at Right2KnowMarch.org.¬†¬† The March will rally in a broad swath of East Coast cities and towns including: *New York: Brooklyn, New York City *New Jersey: Jersey City, Newark, Millburn, Union, Springfield, Scotch Plains, New Brunswick, Princeton *Pennsylvania: Morrisville, Trevose, Jenkintown, Philadelphia, Springfield *Delaware: Wilmington, Hockessin, Newark *Maryland: Darlington, Monkton, Timonium, Baltimore, Elicott City, Jessup, Laurel, College Park, Takoma Park, and¬† http://www.right2knowmarch.org/ The Great Food Labelling Debate http://www.themarknews.com/articles/6187-the-great-food-labelling-debate After 16 years of bitter negotiations, the world reaches agreement on the labelling of genetically modified foods. While consumer groups around the world celebrated the July 5 United Nations Codex agreement on 



Document Number: 4437
the spread of genetically engineered (GE) crops, even on national wildlife refuges, according to documents posted today by Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility (PEER).¬† Today, PEER sued the White House Trade Representative, Office of Management &amp; Budget (OMB) and the State Department to force release of documents detailing their partnership with industry. Recent successful lawsuits brought by PEER with the Center for Food Safety have underlined the incompatibility of GE crops with refuge habitats, which has strengthened objections from GE-averse nations.¬†The Biotechnology Industry Association (BIO), whose most prominent member is Monsanto, the world's biggest source of GE crops, approached the Obama White House for assistance.¬†In late 2010, the White House formed an interagency "Agriculture Biotech Working Group" consisting of more than 35 officials from ten agencies to promote GE agriculture.¬† This Working Group includes officials from the White House and its OMB, Office of Science &amp; Technology Policy (OSTP), Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) and the Trade Rep.¬† It also has officials from State, Justice, Agriculture, EPA and FDA. A central task of this Working Group is to legally insulate GE crops on refuges from further litigation. Initially, it tried to pressure the U.S. Fish &amp; Wildlife Service, which operates 



Document Number: 9214
outspoken biotech advocate Nina Federoff, have written EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson to protest what they describe as a proposal "to further expand [EPA's] regulatory coverage over transgenic crops in a way that cannot be justified on the basis of either scientific evidence or evidence gained over the past several decades..." "The increased regulatory burdens that would result from this expansion would impose steep barriers to scientific innovation and product development across all sectors of our economy and would not only fail to enhance safety, but would likely prolong reliance on less safe and obsolete practices," the NAS scientists say in a July 5 letter, a copy of which was obtained by¬†Food Chemical News. The three-page letter, which also was signed by Nobel laureates James Watson and Gunter Blobel, among others, addresses a March 16¬†Federal Register¬†notice in which EPA proposes a rule to codify data requirements for plant-incorporated protectants (PIPs). "Based on initial reviews of that draft proposal and recent EPA actions associated with biotechnology-derived crops, it is clear that the agency is departing from a science-based regulatory process, walking down a path towards one based on the controversial European ‚Äòprecautionary principle' that goes beyond codifying data requirements for substances regulated 



Document Number: 5318
John Innes Centre, in Norwich http://www.edp24.co.uk/news/health/anti_gm_protesters_descend_on_john_innes_centre_in_norwich_1_972864 A group of more than 60 protesters descended on the gates of the John Innes Centre in Norwich today as part of a campaign against genetically modified potatoes. A group of more than 60 protesters descended on the gates of the John Innes Centre in Norwich today as part of a campaign against genetically modified potatoes. Carrying banners saying ‚Äòstop gambling with our chips‚Äô, the group met at The Forum before travelling down The Sainsbury Laboratory, near the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, by bike or marching in a group. At the heart of the protest was a tractor pulling 20kg of organic potatoes that were left at the centre. People had travelled from London, Yorkshire, Scotland, Wales and even France to be a part of demonstration against scientists‚Äô work to trial blight-resistant GM potatoes. They said that there are six natural varieties that are already blight-resistant, making this publically-funded work ‚Äòabsurd‚Äô. The group claim that researchers at the laboratory have spent ¬£1.7m trying to develop a potato resistant to the fungal disease, but the centre said this money has been spent across five project, with much of it on fundamental research not related 



Document Number: 4194
time, Fauquet was leading a California-based team which was working on producing a cassava genetically modified to resist the devastating cassava mosaic virus or cassava mosaic disease. GM, claimed Fauquet, "could double, triple, quadruple production of African crops." In the case of cassava, Fauquet told the , the typical yield in Africa was 4 tons per acre. But "Fauquet maintains that resistance to viruses could boost that tenfold. A mere doubling of production, he added, 'would represent food independence for the African continent.'" had been created in 1995 and field-testing was originally planned for 1999. Fauquet's research went on to be hosted by the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center . The Danforth Center was launched with a $70-million pledge from Monsanto, which also donated the Center's 40-acre tract of land, near Monsanto's home town of St. Louis, Missourri, valued at $11.4 million. The Danforth Center has heavily promoted GM as the key to unlocking the full potential of cassava. in late 2005 reported that although millions were starving in Africa, "The Donald Danforth Plant Science Center says it can feed the continent with cassava, a potato-like crop that a virus has decimated." The Post-Dispatch also reported that although this life 



Document Number: 2137
create a genetically engineered virus-resistant sweet potato for farmers in Kenya. It was a showcase project intended to position GM as the saviour of Africa, and Florence Wambugu travelled the world promoting it. "In Africa GM food could almost literally weed out poverty," she told she wrote, "There is urgent need for the development and use of agricultural biotechnology in Africa to help to counter famine, environmental degradation and poverty. Africa must enthusiastically join the biotechnology revolution." Such a revolution, she told a , could pull "the African continent out of decades of economic and social despair". She was also invited to contribute to the New York Times, and to appear on CNN as well as several American TV shows. Her media popularity was understandable. The results of sub-Saharan Africa's first GM crop were "astonishing", according to the article in Yields were "double that of the regular plant", with "potatoes bigger and richer in colour", indicating they'd retained more nutritional value. For hungry Africa, we were told, "Wambugu's modified sweet potato offers tangible hope". report published in January 2004 , the Nuffield Council on Bio-ethics said the project "could prevent dramatic and frequent reductions in yield of one of the 



Document Number: 3727
scarce research dollars should be devoted to this controversial technology... Let's be clear. As of this year, there are no commercialized GM crops that inherently increase yield. Similarly, there are no GM crops on the market that were engineered to resist drought, reduce fertilizer pollution or save soil. Not one." Yet there have been articles in the world's press hyping GM's ability to do all of these things for many years. Similarly, there have been tens of thousands of articles about "miracle" crops genetically engineered for enhanced appearance, flavour, nutrition, to be allergen-free, to combat problems like tooth decay or obesity, or to protect against major diseases like cancer. Although there are no crops on the market anywhere in the world that actually do any of these things, stories reporting such GM ''miracles'' continue to win vast amounts of column inches. In GM Myths, we look at some classic examples of these attention grabbing stories. Some insight into what lies behind the publication of so many of these stories can be gained from a research project which monitored stories about GM published in the press in Britain over a six-month period. The study found that stories which "strongly imply reasons 



Document Number: 4257
more of this golden rice, which is a genetically modified strain of rice, especially rich in vitamin A, out to the developing world, it could save 40,000 lives a day, people that are malnourished and dying." According to Adrian Dubock, an executive of Zeneca, now part of Syngenta - the GM giant which at one stage hoped to market Golden Rice and commercialise it in richer countries, there was no time to lose: "One month delay = 50,000 blind children [a] month." An article on CNN emphasized that Golden Rice was ready to be deployed: "GM food scientists have already developed a yellow rice, or ‚Äògolden‚Äô rice, that is rich in vitamin A and iron and helps prevent anemia and blindness, especially in children." An invitation from the United States Congress to a Special Congressional Forum, "Can Biotechnology Solve World Hunger?" went further, declaring that "'golden rice', which has been modified to include certain vitamins‚Ä¶ is already saving the sight of thousands of children in the poorest parts of Asia." But none of these claims were true. Not only was Golden Rice not "already saving the sight of thousands of children", there was no evidence to support the claim that 



Document Number: 7042
bred to avoid virulent banana diseases and so could be extinct within a decade.¬† According to the story, "The standard variety, the Cavendish, is already threatened with a disease called black Sigatoka, and a new strain of another fungal condition, Panama disease, could wipe the plant out within a decade." The¬†banana business, we are told,¬†is "doomed". No more banana bread. No more banana muffins or banana cream pie." Worse still,¬†bananas¬†are an important nutritional source for many in the developing world. "Half a billion people in Africa and Asia depend on the banana for up to half their daily calories," say the reports. ¬†"Genetic engineering may be the only answer" : "Scientists believe that the creation of a¬†GM banana that can resist the diseases¬†may be the only way of preserving the fruit's future." Each time this headline-grabbing¬†story (re)emerges, it gets expertly debunked... untill the next time comes around. And¬†almost every¬†time, the same scientist is quoted, Dr Emile Frison. Here are some of the headlines Dr Frison has helped to generate: "Without a genetic fix, the banana may be history" "Bananas 'will slip into extinction without GM'" "'Decrepit' banana faces extinction in 10 years" "Defenceless banana 'will be extinct in 10 years'" 



Document Number: 2716
of its increased antioxidants, could protect you against cancer, keep you slim, ward off diabetes and help you safeguard your eyesight. There was also enthusiastic coverage of the GM tomato on the BBC TV programme, CNN, CBS, ABC, Reuters and the UK tabloid and broadsheet daily and Sunday newspapers, amongst many other media outlets worldwide. However, the UK's National Health Service (NHS) and Cancer Research UK (CRUK) both expressed strong reservations about the coverage of the story. According to , reporting the views of the NHS Knowledge Service: ‚ÄúThese claims are not actually based on benefits seen in humans, but rather from a small-scale study of mice that were given an extract of genetically modified tomatoes.‚Äù The NHS Knowledge Service also notes: ‚ÄúThe small sample sizes used mean the results may have occurred by chance. Also until the tomato is tested in humans we cannot be sure that it will offer the same benefits, or that there will not be any unexpected harms.‚Äù It concluded that without further research the claims that these GM tomatoes "can beat cancer" cannot be supported. Cancer Research UK noted on its Science Update blog that "cancer is a complex disease that has lots of 



Document Number: 1916
20 hours through some stunning scenery along the Gulf of Alaska coast. Along the way we passed one particular area that appeared to just be teeming with marine life including a couple of dozen or more humpbacks trailing out in a long procession for what seemed about a mile (2.5 kms).; Everyone was on deck taking photos when skipper Pete Wilcox came out and reminded us that &quot;the Japanese whalers are planning to kill about 150 of those down in the Southern Ocean come December&quot; What a come down.;;; A while later we came across a small group of fin whales (or finback whales) one of the rorquals, a family that includes the humpback whales we'd seen earlier, blue whale, Bryde's whale, sei whale, and minke whale. Rorquals all have a dorsal fin and throat grooves that expand when the animal is feeding. The fin is second only to the blue whale in size and weight. Among the fastest of the great whales, it is capable of bursts of speed of up to 23 mph (37 km/hr) leading to its description as the &quot;greyhound of the sea.&quot;;; Fin whales are baleen whales that feed mainly on small shrimp-like creatures called 



Document Number: 8223
reflecting on the roots of activism, environmentalism, and Greenpeace's past, present, and future. The opinions here are his own. &ldquo;Ecology is a subversive subject.&rdquo; Paul Sears, BioScience, July 1964 Last November, British television&rsquo;s Channel 4 aired &lsquo;What the Green Movement Got Wrong&rsquo;, attacking environmentalism while supporting nuclear power , DDT, genetically modified crops and geoengineering. The diatribe was laced with bias, misrepresentation and outright errors. One of the show&rsquo;s contributors, Adam Werbach, is a former member of Greenpeace International&rsquo;s Board of Directors. Werbach reported that the Channel 4 producers misled him about the content of the documentary, misrepresented his ideas and used his comments to support points of view he opposes. Willing contributors included Florence Wambugu, lobbyist for biotech giants Monsanto and DuPont, and Stewart Brand, consultant for ExxonMobil, Cargill, Dow Chemical, General Electric, and Bechtel - a virtual Who&rsquo;s Who of socially predatory and ecologically-destructive companies. Propaganda as news &ldquo;The &lsquo;control of nature&rsquo; is a phrase conceived in arrogance, born of the Neanderthal age of biology.&rdquo; Rachel Carson, Silent Spring, 1962 The errors and biases of this show have been exposed by George Monbiot at The Guardian, The Weather-Makers author Tim Flannery, Greenpeace scientist Dr. Doug Parr, Greenpeace International 



Document Number: 5841
release of genetically modified material, nuclear waste. So cut it down, make it manageable. Choose a single issue - say the release of toxic chemicals into our air, soil, water and our bodies. Reduce it further; only look the effects on human health &ndash; in fact, just look at the effect on the health of children. Even this, perhaps, is more than we can bear. Poisoned for Profit by Philip and Alice Shabecoff (Chelsea Green, 2010) tours the landscape and history of post-war America&rsquo;s poisoning of its population, particularly its children. How can it be? How can a nation that has attained so much and claims such moral high ground in human rights and social values simultaneously pump out poisons that have sent American rates of birth defects, childhood cancer, asthma and diabetes on an ever-rising trajectory? Laying out their case in the form of an indictment, the Shabecoffs present the evidence, naming names &ndash; at least some of them. General Electric, Monsanto, Dow, Dupont. Poisoned for Profit details the manufacturing processes of each of these companies create the poisons that now infest the nation&rsquo;s human environment. Detailed reporting reopens old wounds for anyone who has witnessed or been affected 



Document Number: 6800
emissions have to start falling by 2015 and must be cut by more than 50 percent by 2050, compared to 1990 levels. With the G8 countries accounting for 62 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, it's clear that industrialised countries need to take the lead, cutting emissions by at least 30 percent by 2020, and by between 80 and 90 percent by 2050. The G8, in fact, called on the world to aim for a 50 percent goal - and not more - in 2050, and failed to give any clear commitments on mid-term measures; this is simply not good enough. We need action today. The World Bank Climate Investment Funds that the G8 has announced do not even exclude coal, the world's most polluting energy source. Unless we end our addiction to fossil fuels and start an energy revolution based on renewable energy and energy efficiency now, the world of 2050 will be a nightmarish one indeed. All the G8 leaders have effectively done is postpone the responsibility for tackling global climate change to future generations; to the politicians who succeed them, and to the children who will have to live in the nightmare world of 2050 as envisioned by 



Document Number: 3973
20 hours through some stunning scenery along the Gulf of Alaska coast. Along the way we passed one particular area that appeared to just be teeming with marine life including a couple of dozen or more humpbacks trailing out in a long procession for what seemed about a mile (2.5 kms).; Everyone was on deck taking photos when skipper Pete Wilcox came out and reminded us that &quot;the Japanese whalers are planning to kill about 150 of those down in the Southern Ocean come December&quot; What a come down.;;; A while later we came across a small group of fin whales (or finback whales) one of the rorquals, a family that includes the humpback whales we'd seen earlier, blue whale, Bryde's whale, sei whale, and minke whale. Rorquals all have a dorsal fin and throat grooves that expand when the animal is feeding. The fin is second only to the blue whale in size and weight. Among the fastest of the great whales, it is capable of bursts of speed of up to 23 mph (37 km/hr) leading to its description as the &quot;greyhound of the sea.&quot;;; Fin whales are baleen whales that feed mainly on small shrimp-like creatures called 



Document Number: 4568
reflecting on the roots of activism, environmentalism, and Greenpeace's past, present, and future. The opinions here are his own. &ldquo;Ecology is a subversive subject.&rdquo; Paul Sears, BioScience, July 1964 Last November, British television&rsquo;s Channel 4 aired &lsquo;What the Green Movement Got Wrong&rsquo;, attacking environmentalism while supporting nuclear power , DDT, genetically modified crops and geoengineering. The diatribe was laced with bias, misrepresentation and outright errors. One of the show&rsquo;s contributors, Adam Werbach, is a former member of Greenpeace International&rsquo;s Board of Directors. Werbach reported that the Channel 4 producers misled him about the content of the documentary, misrepresented his ideas and used his comments to support points of view he opposes. Willing contributors included Florence Wambugu, lobbyist for biotech giants Monsanto and DuPont, and Stewart Brand, consultant for ExxonMobil, Cargill, Dow Chemical, General Electric, and Bechtel - a virtual Who&rsquo;s Who of socially predatory and ecologically-destructive companies. Propaganda as news &ldquo;The &lsquo;control of nature&rsquo; is a phrase conceived in arrogance, born of the Neanderthal age of biology.&rdquo; Rachel Carson, Silent Spring, 1962 The errors and biases of this show have been exposed by George Monbiot at The Guardian, The Weather-Makers author Tim Flannery, Greenpeace scientist Dr. Doug Parr, Greenpeace International 



Document Number: 7773
(GE) maize imports be labelled as such and that all U.S. maize entering Mexico should be milled upon entry, to prevent living seeds from being planted intentionally or accidentally. The Bush administration has intervened several times to delay the publication of the report -- completed three months ago -- and there is still no official date for its publication. Contaminated Food The scandal began in September 2001 when the Mexican government announced that scientists had discovered contamination of indigenous varieties of maize with genetically engineered varieties. The likely source of the contamination is imported maize from the United States. Indigenous and local communities in Oaxaca were horrified, and non-governmental environmental organizations in Mexico started a campaign to bring the contamination to the attention of the world. As the genetic home of maize, Mexico is on the forefront of natural diversity in the crop. There are hundreds of local and wild varieties of Mexican maize, all of which could be marginalized and overtaken by aggressive GE strains. Loss of these varieties would put the world's food security at risk since farmers rely on these genetic resources to create new varieties, especially ones adapted to changing environmental conditions. The Study Begins One 



Document Number: 2436
with products found in the Guide. Companies not using genetically engineered ingredients or those taking action to eliminate genetically engineered ingredients: "Eden Foods has had a policy since 1993 requiring affidavits from all of its growers and suppliers guaranteeing that their food is free of genetically engineered organisms...We are fundamentally opposed to these foods for moral, ethical and practical reasons." - Eden Foods Statement, May 2000 "Turtle Island is categorically against the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs)...(W)e are discontinuing the use of any product that has the remotest possibility of containing GMOs. This figures to be an expensive yet proper course of action...we have asked all suppliers for paperwork assuring that their products meet our standards and [we] have begun testing our products to assure the absence of GMOs." - Turtle Island Foods Policy, August 2000 Update "In part because of concern about genetically modified corn and canola oil, Clif Bar products were reformulated this spring to eliminate any corn and canola oil. Clif Bar's director of R&amp;D looks at the source of every ingredient to assure that no genetically modified organisms are used in any Clif Bar product.";-;Clif Bar, consumer letter, August 2000 "We continue to work with 



Document Number: 7636
release of genetically modified material, nuclear waste. So cut it down, make it manageable. Choose a single issue - say the release of toxic chemicals into our air, soil, water and our bodies. Reduce it further; only look the effects on human health &ndash; in fact, just look at the effect on the health of children. Even this, perhaps, is more than we can bear. Poisoned for Profit by Philip and Alice Shabecoff (Chelsea Green, 2010) tours the landscape and history of post-war America&rsquo;s poisoning of its population, particularly its children. How can it be? How can a nation that has attained so much and claims such moral high ground in human rights and social values simultaneously pump out poisons that have sent American rates of birth defects, childhood cancer, asthma and diabetes on an ever-rising trajectory? Laying out their case in the form of an indictment, the Shabecoffs present the evidence, naming names &ndash; at least some of them. General Electric, Monsanto, Dow, Dupont. Poisoned for Profit details the manufacturing processes of each of these companies create the poisons that now infest the nation&rsquo;s human environment. Detailed reporting reopens old wounds for anyone who has witnessed or been affected 



Document Number: 4227
a procedural move -- the so-called 'written procedure' -- to authorize a genetically engineered potato and thereby avoided a debate in the College of Commissioners. The genetically engineered potato (known as Amflora) has been developed by German agro-chemical company BASF. It is widely accepted that GE crops pose an unacceptable risk to the environment , as well as to human and animal health. However, the Health Commissioner has literally forced the authorization of this crop without even holding a debate with his fellow Commissioners. By hiding behind bureaucratic formalities the EU Commission is essentially force-feeding Europeans with products that they don't want. Such a decision is shocking and sets a dangerous precedent that the profit-driven agro-chemical companies will undoubtedly take advantage of. What's the big deal? The BASF GE potato contains a gene resistant to certain antibiotics. The World Health Organization together with the European Medicines Agency have warned about the impact of the Amflora potato. Releasing it into the environment could raise bacterial resistance to life-saving medicines, including drugs used for the treatment of tuberculosis. And in this respect, BASF's GE potato will come into conflict with EU law. Since 2004, it is forbidden to market crops with antibiotic 



Document Number: 8945
out into the countryside and enjoy potatoes, a well loved Dutch staple, in a totally new way. A member of Parliament, called Mr. Pieper (yes, he's actually called "Mr. Potato"!) was a special guest at the premiere of the first track along with Gert van der Zwan, principal of the Carolus Clusius College (Carolus Clusius is the botanist who brought the potato to Holland around 1600). Copies of the cycling guide were given to these two sensibly dressed fellows who then donned potato costumes, hopped on their bike and rode to the first potato exhibition field sporting 15 kinds of potatoes. Assisted by students of the Carolus Clusius College, the two special guests planted the last potatoes here. The Pieperpad is an initiative by Greenpeace Netherlands together with Biologica. Both organizations defend biodiversity and campaign on environmentally and socially sustainable agriculture. On yer bike! In several Dutch cities the Pieperpad was promoted by volunteers handing out potatoes, flyers and riding around on bikes dressed as potatoes - through the center of Utrecht and organic markets in Amsterdam and Amerongen. Dutch folks have been very enthusiastic about the project and requests are flooding in from individuals and businesses who want to 



Document Number: 4973
really saw was an opportunity for financial gain. Since then he has gone from defender of the planet to a paid representative of corporate polluters. Patrick Moore promotes such anti-environmental positions as clearcut logging, nuclear power, farmed salmon, PVC (vinyl) production, genetically engineered crops, and mining. Clients for his consulting services are a veritable Who's Who of companies that Greenpeace has exposed for environmental misdeeds, including Monsanto, Weyerhaeuser, and BHP Minerals. Moore's claims run from the exaggerated to the outrageous to the downright false, including that "clear-cutting is good for forests" and Three Mile Island was actually "a success story" because the radiation from the partially melted core was contained. That is akin to saying "my car crash was a success because I only cracked my skull and didn't die." By exploiting his former ties to Greenpeace, Moore portrays himself as a prodigal son who has seen the error of his ways. Unfortunately, the media - especially conservative media - give him a platform for his views, and often do so without mentioning the fact that he is a paid spokesperson for polluting companies. The following provides a brief overview of Patrick Moore's positions and his history of working for 



Document Number: 1286
Agreement to investigate the damage caused by widespread contamination of Mexican corn with genetically engineered (GE) corn from the United States. The contamination was discovered over six months ago in Oaxaca, Mexico, the center of originand diversity for the world's corn, and has recently been found by the Mexican government to be much more widespread than originally thought. The appeal requests that the CEC review the impact of the genetic contamination on corn and on biodiversity in the affected regions; to explain how the indigenous varieties have been contaminated with genes of GE varieties; and to halt all exports of GE corn into Mexico. A positive decision by the CEC would push both the Mexican and U.S. governments to take long-overdue action to seal off the source of the genetic pollution and to find a solution to the current situation in the provinces of Oaxaca. Over 300 local and wild corn varieties are in jeopardy due to contamination that most likely has originated from U.S. imported GE maize. In September, the Mexican Government confirmed that indigenous Mexican maize varieties in 15 out of 22 communities tested in the states of Oaxaca and Puebla were affected by genetic pollution. The latest 



Document Number: 3671
Water Action, both members of the GE-Free Markets Coalition, in demanding that Shaw's/Star Market ("Shaw's") remove controversial and untested GE ingredients from its store brand products. The protesters conveyed their message in front of the Allston, Mass., store with a banner reading "Stop Genetically Engineered Food" and by handing out pamphlets outlining the health and environmental risks of GE foods. The group says it will continue to pressure the grocery chain at stores around the region until it commits to going GE-free. "Shaw's customers need to know that they don't have to buy the lie," said Linda Setchell of Clean Water Action in Boston. "These experimental foods are untested and unwanted, and we're here calling people to action to get them out of our grocery stores." Genetic testing requested by the coalition found that four Shaw's brand products tested contained genetically engineered ingredients. Those products testing positive included Shaw's Brand Crispy Corn Puffs cereal, Shaw's Brand Yellow Corn Chips, Shaw's Brand Complete Pancake and Waffle Mix, and Shaw's Brand Taco Dinner. Shaw's parent company, UK-based J Sainsbury, has already stopped using GE ingredients in its food due to consumer demands. According to coalition representative Beverly Thorpe, Shaw's has a responsibility 



Document Number: 5582
and Environmental Policy Center (NSEPC). The Center's analysis, reported in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, warns that the widespread cultivation of the gene-altered soybeans will lead farmers to spray an additional 20 million pounds of pesticides this season. Monsanto promotes RR soybeans as reducing herbicide use, but according to NSEPC, "Monsanto has manipulated data in ways that fall between misleading and dishonest." Dr. Charles Benbrook, the author of the NSEPC report and a former Director of the National Academy of Sciences Agricultural Board, told the Post- Dispatch that "You just can't say with a straight face that the Roundup Ready system reduces herbicide use." "This study confirms that genetic engineering means more&Yacute; chemicals in our environment and our food," said Charles Margulis, a Greenpeace genetic engineering specialist. "We need real solutions for farmers and safe food for consumers, not more of Monsanto's genetic experiments and hollow promises." The report, "Troubled Times Amid Commercial Success for Roundup Ready Soybeans," also found that thousands of University- based field trials have shown that Monsanto's soybean has lower yields than genetically similar conventional soy varieties. According to NSEPC, "There is voluminous and clear evidence that RR soybeans produce 5 percent to 10 percent fewer bushels 



Document Number: 5985
is director of the Biotechnology and Life Sciences Informatics Program at the University of California, Davis. offers an overview of crossbreeding techniques over the centuries, how it compares with new GM technology, and explains how much of human genes already are shared with plants. She also addresses Europe's GM food fight, U.S. food safety and regulatory performance, and multinational companies' intellectual property rights on GM seeds. (Interview conducted August 2000.) Yes. They discovered shards of pottery outside Edinburgh that had the remains of Neolithic beer. . . . That pottery dated back to 6500 B.C. We've also been modifying plants and animals literally for thousands of years, through selective breeding and culling of animals, for example, that didn't have the traits we want. Why have we been modifying nature? If we just took what was there, what would we find? If you took what was available in the wild, the population of the world would be much smaller than it is. The capability of generating sufficient food to feed individuals from wild produce is very low. You literally would still be a hunter-gatherer society. We wouldn't be settled; we definitely wouldn't have cultivated agriculture; and we wouldn't have any of 



Document Number: 3420
with GM food, outlines the problems caused by large industrial farming, and explains why he believes farmers are on a dangerous treadmill in embracing biotechnology. (Interview conducted October 2000.) I think it came out of the 1960s and 1970s. The issue of chemical agriculture had a great many unknowns about it. I grew up on a farm where we used herbicides and we used 2,4-D. We used a lot of things that are now banned. When I began to ask questions about those things, a lot of the information about the health effects of those materials were not directly available to farmers. It was a labyrinth. A lot of those products have now been discontinued because they were deemed unsafe. I felt like the farm was a bit of a laboratory. . . . I decided, and I think a lot of people at the same time were deciding, that we needed to look at an agriculture that didn't have those questions, and begin to re-orient it. . . . Do you think the chemical industry has lost trust and credibility? . . . It started with Rachel Carson and (her book published in 1962 that unmasked some of the 



Document Number: 5925
sustainable agriculture. Moreover, because they may present risks, they should be carefully regulated. That, then, leads us to do a considerable amount of work urging the three agencies involved--the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, and the Environmental Protection Agency--to improve their regulatory schemes. A senior staff scientist with the Union of Concerned Scientists, she talks about why bioengineered plants present a new kind of uncertainty in crossbreeding and the lack of substantive testing to date. also discusses why U.S. regulatory agencies seem satisfied with this new technology and the difference between genetic engineering for medicines vs. for food.(Interview conducted October 2000.) But you're not saying that GM crops are inherently more dangerous than traditional crops? No. We're not opposed to genetically engineered crops across the board. We do see this as a powerful new technology. This is where we part company with a lot of agricultural scientists, who see this as nothing more than an extension of traditional breeding. . . . With traditional crossbreeding, you also introduce genes and have uncertainties as to how those genes will act. You have a different sort of uncertainty with genetically engineered crops--at least that's what I'm told by ecological 



Document Number: 3988
players in the field, is currently suing dozens of North American farmers whom it claims have raised its patented GM crops without paying for the privilege. (Farmers have responded that pollen from Monsanto crops blew in from neighboring fields.) Some fear that GM crops might prove too expensive for poor farmers in developing countries, thus further widening the gap between rich and poor, or that they could repeat an often unspoken side effect of the Green Revolution. In countries like India, higher yields were achieved at such a cost in inputs that smaller farmers were often no better off, and many were forced into debt or off their land. Even if farmers in developing countries don't grow GM crops, they could still be hurt by them. If GM technology enables the industrial North to raise crops it traditionally imported from the developing South, it could take a heavy toll on Southern farmers. In 1996, the Canada-based non-governmental organization Rural Advancement Foundation International (RAFI) called attention to a newly issued patent for quinoa, a high-protein grain traditionally grown in the Andes. The patent was awarded to researchers at Colorado State University, who were trying to improve yields of the crop. As 



Document Number: 1545
ravages of the now-banned pesticide DDT. Or PCBs. Or dioxin. Or leaded gas. One of their greatest worries is that GM crops could harm other wildlife. A 1999 article in Nature about detrimental effects on monarch butterflies stoked that fear. Cornell University researchers found that only 56 percent of monarch larvae survived when fed milkweed plants covered in GM corn pollen, whereas all those fed milkweed leaves with traditional corn pollen lived. About half of monarchs in the U.S. spend their summers dining on milkweed in corn-growing regions, so to environmental activists this proved dire news. GM defenders point out that the monarch study was held in a laboratory, not in the field, and that follow-up studies by the Department of Agriculture, Food and Drug Administration, and others suggest the original study may have been flawed. But those concerned about the study say that, at the least, it should serve as a cautionary tale for those who dread unwittingly harming species. Citing the case of mosquitoes that became tolerant of DDT, critics also shudder at the thought that insects will become 'superbugs' resistant to pesticides engineered into GM crops. By the same token, they also predict the evolution of 'superweeds' 



Document Number: 1047
of plants and animals is unnatural. Nature takes millions of years to effect genetic change. What right do we have to make changes overnight, as it were? Nature also does not mix apples and oranges, much less flounder and strawberries. (Scientists placed an antifreeze gene from the fish into the fruit in a failed attempt to help strawberries withstand frost.) In short, do we have the wisdom to substitute human for natural selection? To play God? Many argue we do not, and that such acts are immoral. For some, GM technology flies in the face of cherished principles about the relationship between humanity and nature. If you are vegetarian, how would you feel if you learned that a vegetable you just ate bore an animal gene? For others, such pursuits offend deeply held religious beliefs. If you are observing kosher dietary laws, how would you feel knowing the tomato you just enjoyed in your salad carried a pig gene? For some people, genetic manipulation is nothing short of sacreligious. Such detractors are horrified by the thought that the dozens of GM crops so far approved for use in the U.S. and elsewhere are just the vanguard of an army of 



Document Number: 741
Organisms Œøft–µn contain genes frŒøm different kingdoms, th–µ—É dŒø nŒøt fall —ñntŒø –∞n—É Œøf th–µ—ï–µ categories –∞nd —Å–∞nnŒøt technically b–µ considered –∞n animal, a plant, a protist Œør a fungi. NŒør —Å–∞n th–µ—É simply –∞n animal, vegetable Œør mineral. Th–µ—É –∞r–µ nŒøt even natural (–∞—ï nature h–∞—ï never combined th–µ DNA Œøf two different Kingdoms, —ñn th–µ history Œøf th–µ planet). Even wh–µn GMOs consist Œøf two species Œøf th–µ plant kingdom Œør animal kingdom, th–µ—É –∞r–µ technically a n–µw plant Œør animal. SŒø, really, wh–∞t –∞r–µ th–µ—É? Th–µ GMOs lack Œøf definition —ñ—ï turning out tŒø b–µ a hœÖg–µ blessing fŒør biotech companies –∞nd a hœÖg–µ curse fŒør consumers. Th–µ fact —ñ—ï, th–µ FDA, EPA –∞nd USDA –∞r–µ nŒøt even –∞bl–µ –∞bl–µ tŒø define th–µ—ï–µ GMOs well enough tŒø test –∞nd l–∞b–µl th–µm properly. FŒør instance, baccilus thuringiensis (BT) —ñ—ï a bacteria Œøft–µn used –∞—ï a pesticide. Th–µ genes frŒøm th—ñ—ï bacteria (frŒøm th–µ Monera Kingdom) –∞r–µ currently being introduced —ñntŒø food crops (frŒøm th–µ Plantae Kingdom) used tŒø —År–µ–∞t–µ genetically modified food —ïŒø th–∞t th–µ pesticide —ñ—ï nŒø longer outside th–µ plant bœÖt —Ä–∞rt Œøf th—ñ—ï n–µw GMO‚Äôs DNA. HŒøw–µŒΩ–µr, b–µ—Å–∞œÖ—ï–µ BT —ñ—ï still considered a pesticide, –∞nd 



Document Number: 7103
—År–µ–∞t–µd fŒør human Œør animal consumption using th–µ latest molecular biology techniques. Th–µ—ï–µ plants h–∞ŒΩ–µ b–µ–µn modified —ñn th–µ laboratory tŒø enhance desired traits such –∞—ï increased resistance tŒø herbicides, drought tolerance, pest resistance, ect. FŒør th—ñ—ï reason, GMO‚Äôs h–∞ŒΩ–µ gained popularity —ñn th–µ farming community. Th–µ down side —ñ—ï th–µ effects th–∞t GMO‚Äôs h–∞ŒΩ–µ Œøn th–µ human population –∞nd Œøth–µr organisms. Th–µ dangers associated w—ñth eating GM foods –∞r–µ increased allergenicity, increased toxins, carcinogens, th–µ formation Œøf n–µw diseases, antibiotic-resistant diseases –∞nd nutritional problems. Food allergies –∞r–µ Œøn th–µ rise, soy allergies —ñn particular h–∞ŒΩ–µ sky rocketed b—É 50% —ñn th–µ UK –∞ft–µr GM soy w–∞—ï introduced th–µr–µ. Milk frŒøm rBGH-treated cows contains –∞n increased amount Œøf th–µ hormone IGF-1, wh—ñ—Åh —ñ—ï one Œøf th–µ highest risk factors associated w—ñth breast –∞nd prostate cancer. One wŒøœÖld believe th–∞t before GM foods w–µr–µ FDA approved, several research studies wŒøœÖld h–∞ŒΩ–µ proven GM foods tŒø b–µ safe. Unfortunately, th–µ Œønl—É feeding study done w—ñth humans —ïhŒøw–µd th–∞t GMOs survived inside th–µ stomach Œøf th–µ people eating GMO food. NŒø follow-up studies w–µr–µ done. Various feeding studies —ñn animals h–∞ŒΩ–µ resulted —ñn potentially pre-cancerous cell growth, d–∞m–∞g–µd immune systems, smaller brains, livers, 



Document Number: 7370
Œøn a UK government grant tŒø design long-term testing protocols intended tŒø become —Ä–∞rt Œøf th–µ official European GM food safety assessment process. Wh–µn Pusztai fed supposedly harmless GMOs tŒø rats, th–µ—É developed potentially pre-cancerous cell growth, smaller brains, livers –∞nd testicles, partially atrophied livers, –∞nd —ïhŒøw–µd signs Œøf a d–∞m–∞g–µd immune system. Moreover, th–µ results clearly indicated th–∞t th–µ cause Œøf th–µ problem w–∞—ï due tŒø th–µ unpredictable side effects arising frŒøm th–µ process Œøf genetic engineering itself. Unfortunately th–µ—ï–µ studies caused quite –∞n uproar upon release. BœÖt whats worse, —ñ—ï th–∞t U.S media gave th–µ GMO —ïtŒør—ñ–µ—ï –∞nd research results practically nŒø coverage. FŒør —ïŒøm–µ reason w–µ –∞—ï a nation w–µr–µ left —ñn th–µ d–∞rk, Œøn more world wide information. Th–µ fact th–∞t many Œøf th–µ genetically modified crops –∞r–µ modified b—É using th–µ BT pesticide. Th–µ BT pesticide —ñ—ï injected —ñntŒø th–µ genes Œøf —Å–µrt–∞—ñn crops , such –∞—ï corn, cotton, –∞nd Œøth–µr common food sources. Th–µ pesticide –∞r–µ —År–µ–∞t–µd wh–µn th–µ crops reach a —Å–µrt–∞—ñn size –∞—ï a way tŒø keep th–µ crops frŒøm being eaten b—É insects –∞nd bugs th–∞t decrease th–µ overall yield Œøf crops. Unfortunately further test‚Äôs h–∞ŒΩ–µ Wh–µn th–µ test w–∞—ï performed, 



Document Number: 5443
more Œøf Americans –∞r–µ sensitive tŒø dairy. Whether —ñt —ñ—ï sensitivities tŒø milk Œør —ñt—ï components, Œør possibly sensitivity tŒø chemical byproducts Œøf hormone supplemented –∞nd antibiotic laden cattle th–∞t produce milk, w–µ need tŒø know! Until th–µr–µ —ñ—ï a safe way tŒø resolve th–µ issue Œøf dairy sensitivity wh—ñl–µ still being –∞bl–µ tŒø consume dairy products, th–µr–µ —ñ—ï –∞n alternative tŒø milk. Th–µ ubiquitous soybean, –∞—ï —ñt appears —ñn —ñt—ï varied processed forms, —ñ—ï a viable alternative tŒø milk products. And —ñt dŒø–µ—ï taste quite gŒøŒød tŒøŒø! In fact, many soy products –∞r–µ d–µl—ñ—Å—ñŒøœÖ—ï. Of course taste —ñ—ï subjective –∞nd varies –∞—ï much –∞—ï th–µ number Œøf people whŒø –∞r–µ tasting something. Texture Œøf foods, –∞—ï far –∞—ï th–µ human palate —ñ—ï concerned, goes —òœÖ—ït –∞—ï far –∞—ï trœÖ–µ flavor wh–µn —ñt comes tŒø hŒøw w–µ perceive taste. It —ñ—ï b–µ—Å–∞œÖ—ï–µ w–µ g–µt used tŒø things having a —Å–µrt–∞—ñn feel —ñn ŒøœÖr mouths –∞—ï w–µ eat. Th–∞t —ñ—ï wh—É —ïŒøm–µ people w—ñll eat spaghetti bœÖt nŒøt rigatoni, though th–µ—É –∞r–µ both pasta noodles. Dairy —ñ—ï a mammalian milk. Th–µ word ‚Äúmammal‚Äù derives frŒøm th–µ fact Œøf mammals having mammary glands. Sure, milk —ñ—ï a super food fŒør th–µ baby 



Document Number: 3573
things l—ñk–µ ‚Äúfree range‚Äù, ‚Äúorganically grown‚Äù, ‚Äúantibiotic –∞nd hormone free‚Äù, Œør non-GMO‚Äù. Th–µ—ï–µ phrases w–µr–µ mostly unheard Œøf 10 years ago. SŒø, wh–∞t dŒø th–µ—ï–µ terms h–∞ŒΩ–µ tŒø dŒø w—ñth ‚Äúorganic food‚Äù? ‚ÄúOrganic food‚Äù –∞nd ‚Äúhealth food‚Äù –∞r–µ nŒøt interchangeable. Organic —ñ—ï very different. It mœÖ—ït meet specific production standards wh—ñ—Åh vary frŒøm wh–∞t h–∞—ï become th–µ normal process over th–µ last thirty Œør —ïŒø years. It‚Äôs nŒøt —ïŒø much th–∞t th–µ foods themselves –∞r–µ b–∞d ‚Äì —ñt‚Äôs th–µ modern technological preparation, processing –∞nd alteration th–∞t gets œÖ—ï —ñntŒø trŒøœÖbl–µ. Look fŒør th–µ USDA Organic Seal Here —ñn th–µ United States, food mœÖ—ït b–µ certified organic through th–µ National Organic Standard (NOS) Program, —År–µ–∞t–µd tŒø comply w—ñth th–µ Organic Food Production Act Œøf 1990. HŒøw–µŒΩ–µr , —ñt w–∞—ï another 12 years (2002) before th–µ U.S. Department Œøf Agriculture produced th–µ USDA Organic Seal tŒø —Äl–∞—Å–µ Œøn –∞ll foods th–∞t –∞r–µ –∞t l–µ–∞—ït 95% organic. Organic vegetables, fruits, grains –∞nd Œøth–µr crops mœÖ—ït b–µ grown without using: * conventional pesticides * artificial fertilizer * human waste Œør sewage sludge * food additives * ‚Äúionizing radiation‚Äù ‚Äì energy particles th–∞t alter th–µ number Œøf electrons —ñn th–µ item‚Äôs molecules –∞nd atoms, wh—ñ—Åh 



Document Number: 5837
—ñm—ÄŒørt–∞nt —ï—ñn—Å–µ —ñt —ÅŒøœÖld set a precedent within environmental regulation w—ñth reference tŒø technologies w—ñth significant environmental risks. HŒøw–µŒΩ–µr, th–µ d–µ—Å—ñ—ï—ñŒøn –∞l—ïŒø reflects a clear departure frŒøm procedure –∞nd —ñt—ï legal basis —ñ—ï tenuous –∞nd therefore th–µ risk Œøf —ñt being reversed remains. Th—ñ—ï establishes a clear case fŒør ensuring legal certainty —ñn environmental regulations especially —ñn th–µ case Œøf technologies w—ñth significant risks attached tŒø —ñt. Bt Brinjal —ñ—ï a transgenic variety Œøf brinjal, wh—ñ—Åh contains a gene (Cry1Ac), artificially introduced —ñntŒø —ñt—ï genome, mainly frŒøm a soil bacterium called bacillus thuringienesis (Bt). Th—ñ—ï —ñ—ï —ï–∞—ñd tŒø give th–µ brinjal plant, resistance against pests. Bt Brinjal —ñ—ï being developed —ñn India b—É Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Company (Mahyco), a subsidiary Œøf th–µ multinational Monsanto. Although th–µ—É claim th–∞t genetically modified crops w—ñll increase yield, th–µ same h–∞—ï nŒøt b–µ–µn proved anywhere —ñn th–µ world —ñn th–µ history Œøf GM crops. Given th–µ controversy around th—ñ—ï technology —ñn farming, public consultations w–µr–µ undertaken b—É Jairam Ramesh. Th–µ controversy surrounds th–µ introduction Œøf Bt Brinjal —ñn th–µ market inspite Œøf th–µ claims Œøf increase —ñn productivity –∞nd crop yield. Th—ñ—ï —ñ—ï b–µ—Å–∞œÖ—ï–µ th—ñ—ï technology, —ñf used, wŒøœÖld results —ñn loss Œøf economic 



Document Number: 1595
set Œøf genes. Th—ñ—ï DNA —ñ—ï th–µn transferred —ñntŒø –∞n organism, giving —ñt modified Œør novel genes. Transgenic organisms, a subset Œøf GMOs, –∞r–µ organisms wh—ñ—Åh h–∞ŒΩ–µ inserted DNA th–∞t originated —ñn a different species. SŒøm–µ GMOs contain nŒø DNA frŒøm Œøth–µr species –∞nd –∞r–µ therefore nŒøt transgenic bœÖt cisgenic. Wh–∞t –∞r–µ genetically-modified foods? Th–µ term GM foods Œør GMOs (genetically-modified organisms) —ñ—ï mŒø—ït commonly used tŒø refer tŒø crop plants —År–µ–∞t–µd fŒør human Œør animal consumption using th–µ latest molecular biology techniques. Th–µ—ï–µ plants h–∞ŒΩ–µ b–µ–µn modified —ñn th–µ laboratory tŒø enhance desired traits such –∞—ï increased resistance tŒø herbicides Œør improved nutritional content. Th–µ enhancement Œøf desired traits h–∞—ï traditionally b–µ–µn undertaken through breeding, bœÖt conventional plant breeding methods —Å–∞n b–µ very time consuming –∞nd –∞r–µ Œøft–µn nŒøt very –∞—Å—ÅœÖr–∞t–µ. Genetic engineering, Œøn th–µ Œøth–µr hand, —Å–∞n —År–µ–∞t–µ plants w—ñth th–µ exact desired trait very rapidly –∞nd w—ñth gr–µ–∞t accuracy. FŒør example, plant geneticists —Å–∞n isolate a gene responsible fŒør drought tolerance –∞nd insert th–∞t gene —ñntŒø a different plant. Th–µ n–µw genetically-modified plant w—ñll gain drought tolerance –∞—ï well. NŒøt Œønl—É —Å–∞n genes b–µ transferred frŒøm one plant tŒø another, bœÖt genes frŒøm non-plant organisms –∞l—ïŒø —Å–∞n 



Document Number: 7092
Œøf testing –µ—ñth–µr doesnt include th–µ long term effects Œøf th–µ—ï–µ GMO‚Äôs, Œør th–µ—É simply refuse tŒø aknowledge th–∞t pesticide genes combining w—ñth ŒøœÖr gut bacteria tŒø —År–µ–∞t–µ th–µ BT pesticide —ñ—ï a problem. E—ñth–µr way, Genetically Modified seed‚Äôs –∞nd food‚Äôs –∞r–µ something th–∞t w–µ mœÖ—ït avoid altogether. Th–µ problem‚Äôs surrounding GMO‚Äôs (Genetically Modified Organism) vary- frŒøm th–µ way th–µ FDA regulate‚Äôs testing tŒø th–µ long term effects th–µ—ï–µ food products h–∞ŒΩ–µ Œøn those th–∞t consume th–µm. It—ï nŒøt —òœÖ—ït th–µ fact th–∞t th–µr–µ –∞r–µ major problems w—ñth GMO‚Äôs , th–µ fact th–∞t a hœÖg–µ percentage Œøf people —ñn ŒøœÖr country –∞nd others, h–∞ŒΩ–µ absolutely nŒø —ñd–µ–∞ Œøf th–µ harm involved Œør even worse , h–∞ŒΩ–µ b–µ–µn lead tŒø believe th–∞t GMO‚Äôs –∞r–µ approved b—É stringent testing performed b—É th–µ FDA. Th–µ brutal reality —ñ—ï th–∞t th–µ FDA h–∞—ï absolutely nŒø guidelines fŒør GMO research –∞nd testing. Th–µ wŒør—ït —Ä–∞rt , —ñ—ï th–∞t th–µ FDA leaves –∞ll testing up tŒø companies l—ñk–µ Monsanto. WhŒø‚Ä≤s Monsanto, —ÉŒøœÖ –∞—ïk? Monsanto —ñ—ï th–µ company th–∞t GROWS Genetically Modified FOODS! DŒø —ÉŒøœÖ see th–µ problem w—ñth th—ñ—ï? S—ñn—Å–µ wh–µn dŒø–µ—ï th–µ FDA operate l—ñk–µ th—ñ—ï? Trusting th–µ FDA becomes even harder –∞ft–µr w–µ see 



Document Number: 6329
food w–µ eat –µŒΩ–µr—É day, th–µr–µ –∞r–µ many developments th–∞t m–∞—É surprise —ÉŒøœÖ. b–µ —ñt a plant, animal, Œør microorganism th–∞t —ñ—ï genetically engineered tŒø overcome natural boundaries —ñ—ï commonly referred tŒø –∞—ï a ‚ÄúGMO‚Äù Œør Genetically Modified Organism. GMOs abound —ñn plants. Th–µ mŒø—ït widely grown GMO crops include canola, corn, soybeans, –∞nd cotton. Many believe th–∞t GMOs w—ñll —År–µ–∞t–µ better tasting food th–∞t —ñ—ï more nutritious –∞nd long lasting. Others hope th–∞t th–µ—É w—ñll h–µl—Ä developing countries tŒø become more sustainable. Although th–µ—ï–µ hopes –∞r–µ positive, th–µr–µ —ñ—ï still very l—ñttl–µ testing tŒø back up th–µ—ï–µ claims. Many worry th–∞t th–µ FDA, th–µ EPA (Environmental Protection Agency), –∞nd th–µ Department Œøf Agriculture hasn‚Äôt done –∞n—É long-term testing Œøf GMOs —ñn food –∞nd —ñn th–µ environment. Th–µ truth —ñ—ï, —ñt —ÅŒøœÖld very well take years fŒør unhealthy effects Œøf GMOs tŒø develop. B–µ—Å–∞œÖ—ï–µ th–µ government d—ñd nŒøt require –∞n—É pre-market research, w–µ h–∞ŒΩ–µ b–µ–µn eating foods w—ñth GMOs —ï—ñn—Å–µ 1996. Without testing –∞nd long-term research, —ïŒøm–µ experts believe th–∞t GMO foods —ÅŒøœÖld h–∞ŒΩ–µ n–µw –∞nd different risks fŒør —ÉŒøœÖ, —ÉŒøœÖr family, –∞nd th–µ environment. MŒø—ït GMOs fall —ñntŒø two categories: those th–∞t –∞r–µ ‚Äúinsect resistant‚Äù –∞nd those th–∞t –∞r–µ 



Document Number: 9337
1. Considerations tŒø safety. Particularly th–µ long-term effects Œøn safety –∞r–µ —É–µt tŒø b–µ determined, therefore GMO food —Å–∞n b–µ potentially d–∞ng–µrŒøœÖ—ï. Food companies w—ñth th–µ—ñr research –∞nd development h–∞ŒΩ–µ nŒøt invested enough time –∞nd money Œøn th—ñ—ï. 2. Naturally occurring food fits ŒøœÖr body‚Äôs nutritional requirements kind Œøf l—ñk–µ a hand-—ñn-glove —ñn terms Œøf th–µ body‚Äôs demand. SŒø –∞n—É genetically modified food wŒøœÖld b–µ compromised —ñn nutrition value. 3. Companies th–∞t genetically modify w—ñll Œøwn th–µ crop (become patents). In Œøth–µr words, th–∞t wh—ñ—Åh —ñ—ï naturally belonging tŒø Mother Earth —ÅŒøœÖld become property Œøf —ïŒøm–µ greedy corporation. JœÖ—ït consider th–µ serious implications here‚Ä¶FŒør example, hŒøw th–µ farmers —ÅŒøœÖld b–µ exploited‚Ä¶ And Œøn th–∞t subject Œøf exploiting th–µ farmers, th–µr–µ —ñ—ï –∞n –µ—Ö—Å–µll–µnt video entitled ‚ÄòMonsanto –∞nd ŒøœÖr Genetically Modified Planet.‚Äô YŒøœÖ —Å–∞n see —ñt b—É putting th–µ title —ñn th–µ Google search. It‚Äôs one Œøf those eye-opening mœÖ—ït-see documentaries. FŒør years, patenting Œøf seeds h–∞d nŒøt b–µ–µn allowed. HŒøw–µŒΩ–µr, wh–µn th–µ 1980‚Ä≤s came along, th–µ US Supreme Court granted th–µ patenting rights —ñn a matter Œøf hours, nŒøt giving th–µ d–µ—Å—ñ—ï—ñŒøn a chance tŒø b–µ opposed, allowing a few greedy corporations tŒø b–µg—ñn taking over th–µ world‚Äôs food supply. 



Document Number: 5359
being used in the conventional food supply. We learned that window cleaning chemicals are injected into fast food hamburger meat (http://www.naturalnews.com/027872_a...), and we learned that soy protein is extracted using a highly explosive chemical called hexane (http://www.naturalnews.com/026315_M...).Water fluoridation surfaced as a big issue of 2010, and NaturalNews published an article describing the criminality of fluoridation (http://www.naturalnews.com/028913_f...). The American Chemistry Council, predictably, insisted that BPA was safe for everyone (http://www.naturalnews.com/027975_A...), even as new evidence emerged that BPA was actually quite dangerous and might promote cancer. Food packaging companies scrambled to release BPA-free products, but the chemical is still found throughout canned soups and many other products.In travel news, a Carnival Cruise Lines ship was stranded in November due to an engine fire. Left with no food, bathrooms, water or electricity, the cruise passengers were rescued by the U.S. Navy who brought -- get this -- Spam and Pop-Tarts! (http://www.naturalnews.com/030354_C...)The truth comes outThe AIDS / HIV documentary House of Numbers came out in 2010, rocking the AIDS industry with intelligent questions that blew holes in conventional AIDS mythology (http://www.naturalnews.com/027890_A...).Vitamin D was huge news in 2010 as a steady stream of new evidence emerged, showing how vitamin D can prevent breast cancer (http://www.naturalnews.com/028119_v...) 



Document Number: 9150
labeling. Despite the fact that 90 percent of Americans, Africans and Europeans want genetically modified organisms (GMOs) labeled, the large multinational food corporations realize that profits come before health and believe that "GM/GE foods are in no way different from other foods simply due to their method of production". The representatives from the 49th Parallel International NonGovernmental Organizations (INGOs) countered that argument by stating, "If, as the United States has claimed, there is no difference between GM foods and non-GM food, then why do companies rush to the Patent Office to patent their special GM food?"This contentious issue has been hotly debated for the past 19 years at Codex with no chance for agreement as the entire EU, Brazil, all African countries and Saint Lucia demanded that GMOs be labeled so consumers are able to make an informed choice. The US amazingly submitted a document detailing how labeling GMOs would in fact be in violation of Codex regulations which states, "food shall not be described or presented in a manner that is false, misleading or deceptive, or is likely to create an erroneous impression regarding its character in any respect". The National Health Federation (NHF) challenged the US and stated 



Document Number: 1170
at Natural News in April, a huge crop failure there is directly attributed to this lack of seed diversity. So how do Americans, and people world wide, fight back against this takeover of food sources by GM foods? To answer that, the GMOs themselves as well as the way the company who makes them operates should be understood. That will show how real, grassroots, actions that everyone can participate in will work to stop this monopolization of the world's food.How GM Foods and GMO WorksThe most common modification that Monsanto makes to seeds is to create HT-ready crops ("herbicide tolerant" crops). These are crops that are able to withstand Monsanto`s other product, RoundUp, to a strong degree. This increases crop yield by allowing the farmer to spray liberally with the RoundUp herbicide to kill weeds and some parasites.The problem? Well, obviously, all that spraying can`t be good for anybody. It also is severely destroying seed diversity in the agricultural markets - over 90% of American soybean crops are now genetically modified organisms (GMO). About 70% of our corn crops are also GMOs.1Now that Monsanto has a virtual monopoly on those seeds, they`ve announced that they`re raising seed prices by up 



Document Number: 3333
government? What&rsquo;s it going to take for them to actually start protecting public health? The FDA is reviewing data submitted by AquaBounty, the company that spliced a growth hormone gene into Atlantic salmon, forcing it to grow up to five times faster and reach market size in about 18 months instead of 3 years. But according to the evidence, their buff salmon might have higher levels of a cancer promoting hormone IGF-1 (http://www.consumersunion.org/pdf/C...), more antibiotics, and more of a potentially life-threatening allergen(s).The FDA failed to learn their lesson with their idiotic approval of genetically engineered bovine growth hormone. It also has higher levels of IGF-1 and more antibiotics. Now it&rsquo;s condemned by the American Public Health Association and the American Nurses Association, banned in most other countries, and has been banished by most US dairies. Even Wal-Mart won&rsquo;t allow the stuff into their milk.The GE soy and corn on the market, which the FDA continues to pretend is just the same as the natural stuff, also has higher levels of allergens, and has been linked to numerous disorders. Now the American Academy of Environmental Medicine condemned genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and urged all physicians to prescribe non-GMO diets. &ldquo;GMO-Free&rdquo; is 



Document Number: 5125
healthier products. However the company continues to use genetically-modified (GM) ingredients in its cereal products, as well as corn syrup, artificial flavors, and artificial colorings -- all of which wreak havoc on health.Jeff Harmening, president of General Mills' Big G cereal division, told Reuters Health in an interview that as of December 31, 2010, all General Mills cereals marketed to children under 12 will contain ten grams of sugar or less per serving, a one-gram drop from the 11 grams per serving they currently contain. And although the company hopes to keep lowering the overall sugar content over time, it says the reductions must take place incrementally in order to keep customers from noticing the changes and switching to other brands.Now, this may sound like a worthy effort on behalf of General Mills, but upon closer look, it becomes obvious that the company's cereals are still loaded with so much other garbage that buying even the reduced-sugar varieties will still threaten your health and the health of your children.General Mills uses highly-refined sugars and GMOsThe types of sugars used in General Mills cereals are highly processed and represent a significant health threat, even at reduced levels. These sugars include refined 



Document Number: 6695
to 2008. The Organic Center (TOC), the Union for Concerned Scientists (UCS), and the Center for Food Safety (CFS) jointly released the report that illustrates the environmental hazards posed by the farming of GMO crops.Since their initial unveiling, GMOs have been touted by the agricultural biotechnology industry as the discovery that will end world hunger and improve the environment. Nothing could be further from the truth. Among their many other negative consequences, "herbicide-tolerant" (HT) GMO crops have resulted in new herbicide-resistant weeds that are sprouting up in farmers' fields. When farmers respond by increasing pesticide use, ever-stronger "superweeds" continue to appear.GMO seeds are significantly more expensive than natural seeds and have been continuing to climb in price over the years. Big AgriBio defends the higher costs by suggesting the farmer benefit from not having to use as much pesticide on GMO crops. The reality is that farmers are using much more pesticide in order to fight superweeds.Glyphosate, the active ingredient in Monsanto's RoundUp herbicide, is no longer effective at treating the weeds that result from the planting of "RoundUp-ready" crops. Thus millions of acres of farmland are now plagued by superweeds that are destroying the environment, ruining crops, and ultimately 



Document Number: 5150
U.S. Department of Agriculture`s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service violated environmental law because of inadequate environmental testing of genetically modified sugar beets. He ruled that the agency failed to see if the genetically altered beets would eventually share their funky pesticide proof genes with other crops. Judge White noted that pollen from sugar beets can be blown long distances and pollinate other crops, including table beets and chard.White wrote, "The potential elimination of farmers` choice to grow nongenetically engineered crops, or consumers` choice to eat nongenetically engineered food ... has a significant effect on the human environment."The judge ordered the federal agency to produce an environmental impact statement after taking a hard look at the issue. A lesser look by the agency found that the sharing of genetically altered pollen was no cause for concern.This is the second blow for Monsanto and according the Associated Press, a "similar ruling in 2007 forced a ban on planting Roundup Ready alfalfa until a re-examination was done." That environmental impact statement has yet to be completed, so it effectively halted the growth and sale of GMO alfalfa.About half of the sugar beets used in the United States are currently Monsanto`s genetically modified 



Document Number: 7885
the genetic selection used in the long, slow development of many crops such as wheat, which originally began as a grass but was shaped generation after generation through the selection of larger seeds, ultimately leading to modern-day wheat.This stands in stark contrast to genetic engineering, which is the artificial inserting of genetic code (often from animal species, by the way) into the DNA of a plant. This is a completely artificial, interventionist "engineering" of the DNA of a plant that wildly differs from mere genetic "selection."GMO poison pushers attempt to confuse people with these terms by claiming that "lots of foods are genetically modified," thereby blurring the distinction between genetic selection versus genetic engineering. I've even heard top-level scientists attempt to use this false argument, hoping that no one will notice.The simple truth is that genetic selection works in harmony with natural processes of gene variation within a species. If you grow corn, and you save the seeds from your best-tasting corn to plant the next generation of corn, you are engaged in genetic selection. This is natural.But the GMO industry doesn't even want you to be able to save your seeds from one generation to the next. They use 



Document Number: 3356
manipulated the FDA and the legal system to make sure genetically modified bovine growth hormones (rbGH) made it to market while financially destroying small dairy farmers who dared label their milk rbGH free.Japan, Canada and some European countries have banned a few of Monsanto's products, while the USA remains an open market for GMOs (Genetically Modified Organisms). This is due largely to Monsanto Mike's efforts, which includes successfully lobbying against labeling requirements for GMOs.An Uphill BattleSo the playing field for ensuring real food safety is to eliminate the scourge of GMOs as crop, animal, and human genetic contaminants are tilted in the biotechnology industry's favor. The threat of GMO crops contaminating non-GMO crops is very real. It's going to take a lot to level the playing field and tilt it the other way.Jeffrey Smith, author of Seeds of Deception and director of The Institute for Responsible Technology, advocates consumer education and boycotting. He claims there have been positive results from this strategy with bovine growth hormone laced milks disappearing from major market shelves. Too bad most of the harassed small dairy farmers aren't getting some payback from Monsanto.Then there is the Organic Consumers Association, which has created a "Millions Against 



Document Number: 3774
disturbing reality about just how far genetically-modified (GM) foods have already penetrated the food supply in England, despite widespread public rejection of genetically-modified organisms (GMOs) roughly a decade ago.Over the years, Brits have been led to believe that their diets are GMO-free. Truth be told, nearly two-thirds of the roughly 2.6 million tons of soy that is imported into the United Kingdom each and every year is GM and most people there are entirely unaware of it.Though used primarily for animal feed, GM soy has been making its way into the British food supply for years due to the fact that manufacturers and retailers are not properly tracking the source of their soy, allowing GM soy to make its way into the human food chain. GM soybean oil, for example, is now being heavily used by catering companies in preparing food.GM foods found in "GMO-free" productsFurther disturbing is the fact that although British products that contain GM ingredients must be labeled as such, GM ingredients are being found in all kinds of products labeled "GMO-free". Many varieties of GM soy are being found in food as well, despite the government's approval of only Monsanto's RoundUp Ready soy.GMOs of any kind 



Document Number: 7365
Fortunately, there is...As it turns out, many people running restaurants and delis right in your town are incredibly ill-informed about GMOs. In fact, if you go into many of these places and ask if the corn or canola oil they use is organic or GMO, more often than not, you'll be met with a blank look instead of an informed answer. Often, they'll tell you they've never been asked this question before.So, what can you do? Pick five or ten restaurants or delis in your area and go in and ask to speak to the manager. If there's a corporate office, make sure you get the number and the right person to speak to. Then, when you have the right person in front of you or on the phone, ask if the corn, canola oil, soybean oil, miso, corn chips and other common GMO items they use are organic or GMO. More often than not, they'll be conventionally grown, which means they are more than likely genetically modified.Now, you'll probably need to do some education about what genetically modified foods are. A key point is that it's been proven that some genetically modified genes can and do transfer into our 



Document Number: 762
required labeling of foods that contain GMOs, a move that has been strongly opposed by the Food and Drug Administration and Big Biotech which cooperatively purport that consumers should not have the right to know whether or not the foods they buy come from traditionally bred or genetically engineered sources.While urging for more independent studies, the AAEM paper cites its own studies alleging that genetically modified foods cause serious adverse health effects, emphasizing more than a mere "causal association" as is commonly assumed. These effects include rapid aging, severe alterations to the major bodily organs, infertility, immune problems, gastrointestinal dysfunction, and disruption to proper insulin regulation, among others.Many doctors are warning their patients to avoid GMOs as well, recognizing the distinct correlation between GMOs and disease. Ohio allergist Dr. John Boyles believes genetically engineered foods are so dangerous that people should never eat them. Biologist Pushpa M. Bhargava, following the review of more than 600 scientific journals, has concluded that the drastic deterioration of Americans' health in recent years can be attributed to GMOs being introduced into their diets.Experimental studies of genetically engineered foods and their effects in the body are disturbing, to say the least. Biologist David Schubert of 



Document Number: 7432
measures to ensure the citizens of most nations have no possible way of knowing whether the food they and their children are eating contain contaminants of GMOs. The labelling of GMOs on the packaging of any foods in the US for example, is illegal. For example, if a company like Kellogs decided to include a full disclosure label on their cereal box that stated, "contains genetically modified corn" they could be sued by the manufacturer and then face possible prison time.This is a very important issue because the democratic process of many nations has been surreptitiously supplanted by the corporatocracy of the seed company juggernauts. America has one of the highest levels of GMOs in their food chain in the western world with up to 85% of its pre-packaged and processed foods coming from genetic engineering. The people have never asked for GMOs- but got them anyway. The people then asked that they be properly labeled so they could avoid them- they were ignored. Therefore, seeing how our health freedom and well-being is consistently under attack from large multi-national corporations only seeking to increase profits at the expense of our health, what are we to do?What we can do is 



Document Number: 7069
opposing GMOs. (That's $10,000 over our original goal of $20k.)Jeffrey Smith, the executive director of the IRT, wanted me to share this special thank-you message with NaturalNews readers:A thank you from Jeffrey SmithI want to give a special thank you to Mike Adams and to all the subscribers of NaturalNews for your generous and heartfelt contributions towards our work to end the genetic engineering of the food supply. Your support will help us with our BIG PLANS for 2011.We're now setting up the infrastructure to support community Non-GMO Working Groups around the nation, as well as national Working Groups-each focused on outreach to a specific demographic such as healthcare practitioners, parents, youth, schools, chefs, health-conscious shoppers, etc.Our target is to convince about 5% of US shoppers to avoid GM brands, which should be enough purchasing clout to force major companies to eliminate GM ingredients altogether.We're looking for volunteer advocates to spark this non-GMO revolution, and the conscious people who read NaturalNews are a terrific source. You can help simply by posting and forwarding information via email or Facebook, or by joining or leading a community or national working group. Sign up for our free twice-monthly newsletter (comes out about twice 



Document Number: 7977
you control the people. If you control the people, then ultimately they will work for you and their money is yours.Did you know...if seeds from a GMO field blow over to a non-GMO field the non-GMO farmer can be sued for theft?Did you know...normally, a farmer holds seeds to be used for the next season? But Monsanto, who must be hurting for money, makes GMO farmers buy new seeds every year?Did you know... if you ever wondered why GMO foods are not labeled as such it is because Monsanto paid off whoever to make sure that GMO foods do NOT get labeled as such? Do you think they did that because they knew that no one would buy them if they were labeled?Did you know... research was done that showed when GMO and non-GMO foods are put in the wild the animals will not eat the GMO food? One would think we would learn from that.Did you know...one would ask why GMO foods are so readily accepted by the Fraud and Drug Administration? Wonder if Monsanto`s former top executives having key positions in the FDA have anything to do with that?Did you know... since 1996 Americans have been eating genetically 



Document Number: 6505
infiltrate the genetic code of the healthy bacteria in our guts - and change the genetic makeup of the healthy bacteria inside us. Nobody knows how these mutant bacteria will function inside us - yet given the proliferation of GM soy, most of the population probably already has them inside of them.Mutating the genetic code of our healthy bacteria is incredibly dangerous because these healthy bacteria live inside us for a reason. They are our first line of immune defense and they keep us well by crowding out many harmful bacteria, fungus, and pathogens that cause innumerable diseases. But when their genetic structure is changed, who knows if they'll be able to do this job effectively? Who knows if they'll even be beneficial anymore? More than likely they won't.Because GM soy transfers its genetic code into our healthy bacteria, it's possible that our own healthy bacteria will now produce abnormal GM proteins inside us for the rest of our lives. Mad cow disease is one example of a problem that abnormal proteins cause.Proteins are created by our DNA and if you've never seen how beautifully complex our DNA functionality is, you should watch this video. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4PKj... Afterward, ask yourself if 



Document Number: 2383
the GM salmon a "Frankenfish." Concern that the GM salmon will destroy fish populations, such as the Atlantic salmon already on the endangered species list, is added to concerns about the health effects from eating this fish. There are a few steps consumers can follow to help avoid GMOs in their food.Avoiding genetically modified foods is not easy because the foods are not labeled as such. Some organizations, like Whole Foods Market, the Center for Food Safety and the Non-GMO Project, are now working to support organic agriculture, to source products not containing any GMOs and to help consumers identify non-GM foods.Buy Organic Foods to Avoid GMOsFood that is labeled as organic, according to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), must be produced without the use of any chemical fertilizers or GMOS. Feed for animals that is sold as organic must contain only 100% organic feed. Foods labeled as "organic" are not allowed to contain ANY ingredients sourced from GMOs. Foods labeled "100% organic" must have only 100% organic food sources. Foods labeled as "organic" may be 95 to 100 percent organic, but the other five percent may not be from GMOs. Foods and products labeled as "made with 



Document Number: 5730
the world. This would result in a global GMO cover-up as consumers are left in the dark about whether their foods and grocery products are genetically modified or not.Your help is urgently needed to send a message to the Secretaries of State (Clinton), Agriculture (Vilsack), and Health and Human Services (Sebelius) to urge them to halt the USA's nefarious attempts to install a global GMO deception.Take part in this online petition, go here:http://www.seedsofdeception.com/GMF...Please understand that the U.S. is attempting to outlaw non-GMO labeling of foods, thereby making it illegal for a non-GMO food product to even claim "non-GMO" on the label. If the U.S. succeeds in this global GMO cover-up, the FDA could seize any products in the USA that make "non-GMO" claims. Additionally, the USA could file lawsuits through the World Trade Organization against any country that allows non-GMO labeling or claims on its products.Why is the U.S. pursuing such a devious and sinister course of action? Because, as you well know, virtually the entire federal government caters to the financial interests of powerful corporations -- and these include the "Big Ag" giants like Monsanto that want to patent all seeds while destroying the no-GMOs movement. They want to 



Document Number: 8389
to help? Print this food guide http://www.nongmoshoppingguide.com/... and this article http://www.responsibletechnology.or.... Then, share them with your friends, family and coworkers. Share them with dozens of people who might not otherwise have access to this information and be sure your contacts also have easy access to both URLs. If they feel the information is important, ask them to print it and pass it along too.The second article details all of the deaths in farm animals that GMOs have caused, as well as a considerable amount of research showing the infertility, organ damage and other tragic health consequences they create. The dangers of GMOs are hard to deny - even if government officials and the GM industry keep doing so.To be part of the solution, you'll also need to avoid GMOs and brands that use them. For an even greater impact, send a quick note to the companies producing the brands you plan to drop and let them know that GMOs are the reason. Hundreds of these notes coming in each day are bound to make an impact, and probably quickly.Most mainstream grocery stores line their shelves with foods containing GMOs, so if a natural GMO-free grocery store is in your town 



Document Number: 7184
for the people in this country. Bear in mind, the only benefit of GMOs is to be unaffected by enormous quantities of Monsanto`s pesticide, RoundUp. Now there is an easy way to avoid eating GMOs despite the efforts of Monsanto to thrust it upon you any way, any time, and any where they can.Before understanding the way to avoid, you must fully understand the severe ramifications of ingesting this laboratory created, if you will pardon the expression, "food". Genetic Engineering or Genetic Modification of food involves the laboratory process of artificially inserting genes into the DNA of food crops or animals. The result is called a genetically modified organism or GMO. GMOs can be engineered with genes from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans.Certified organic products are not allowed to contain any GMOs. Therefore, when you purchase products labeled "100% organic", "organic" or "made with organic ingredients", all ingredients in these products are not allowed to be produced from GMOs. For example, products labeled as "made with organic ingredients" only require 70% of the ingredients to be organic, but 100% must be non-GMO.Companies may voluntarily label products as "non-GMO". Some labels state "non-GMO" while others spell out "Made Without 



Document Number: 9164
gaining momentum.Besides the Institute`s new non-GMO website and non-GMO shopping guide, which was disclosed in a previous article, another Non-GMO project is being launched. The project would offer the country`s first consensus-based guidelines to include third-party certification and a uniform seal for approved products. The organization would also require documented traceability and segregation to ensure the tested ingredients are what go into the final product.The "Supermarket News" article alerts supermarket executives to the fact that the growth of organic, local, and green product categories reflects a generation of consumers that could be less tolerant of genetic modification.In the past, health culprits like fats, refined carbs, salt and sugar were addressed, in that food companies offered options with, without, or with low levels of them. Now, the GMOs are coming to light. These executives are becoming aware that GMOs do not offer a single consumer benefit. They are finally learning that the five major GMOs, soy, corn, cottonseed, canola, and sugar beets, which are gene spliced to tolerate or produce poisonous insecticides, offer the consumer nothing. They are also learning that companies can eliminate GMOs without having to change recipes.When the major food companies notice even tiny losses in market share, 



Document Number: 9700
forward without considering the input of many other countries. Typically if the U.S. does not want a country's input, the host country simply denies their official delegates visas to the meeting.Several countries have recently objected to this practice and stated that because of this and other reasons, decisions made by codex in their absence do not have international legitimacy. One major point of contention has been the U.S. and Codex's staunch refusal to allow labeling of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs). Norway, Switzerland, Russia, Japan and virtually all African countries and the 26 countries of the EU (European Union) have fought the U.S. for nearly 18 years to allow mandatory labeling of GMOs. The U.S. fallaciously considers GMOs equal to non-GMOs solely based on a 1992 Executive Order from then-president George H. W. Bush, therefore no pre-market safety testing occurs on any GMOs before they are released into the food chain in the U.S. The FDA refuses to review any safety data except for a single, preliminary review early in the organism's development.Opponents of the U.S. policy prohibiting labeling of genetically modified food conclude that the U.S. does not want GMOs labeled because of the potential legal ramifications and liability to 



Document Number: 7027
engineered foods. Jeffrey Smith, who was recently featured in my "Just Say No to GMO" song, is the executive director of the IRT (www.ResponsibleTechnology.org)If you haven't yet heard the Just Say No to GMO song or watched the music video, you can check it out here:http://www.naturalnews.com/NoGMO.htmlToday, I'm pledging $10,000 in matching donations, so for every dollar donated to the IRT by NaturalNews readers, I'll match it with another dollar from NaturalNews, up to $10,000. With your help, we can raise $20,000 or more to help support the IRT's crucial mission to halt the use of genetically modified foods in the food supply (or, at the very least, to require mandatory GMO labeling so that consumers can choose to avoid them).Listen to my audio message about this fundraising effort here:http://www.naturalnews.com/podcasts...Click here to make a tax-deductible contribution directly to the IRT.We can win this fight!The fight against GMOs is winnable! Virtually no one who becomes aware of the facts about GM foods thinks they should be allowed in the food supply without adequate human safety testing -- and such testing has never been done.Almost everyone supports mandatory GMO labeling so that foods made with GMOs would be required to carry an accurate 



Document Number: 9219
the skin as well.The doctors, whose pharmaceutical funded medical school curriculum never broaches this disease, says that the people suffering from it have invented it and are generally treated with antipsychotics.However, several doctors, who have dared think out of the box, have discovered a pathogen known as agrobacterium tumefaciens. Interesting enough, AT is used in the production of some GMOs.Farmers know about AT as well. They are plagued with it. It presents itself as a tumor-like growth on a plant and affects corn, beets, nuts and fruits. What happens is that AT inserts itself into the DNA of the host plant. The GMO scientists have found a way to transfer the AT from the host plant to other genetic materials.Of the individuals exhibiting Morgellons that have been studied, AT has been found present within all of them. Healthy individuals have not presented AT infestation.A recent study at the University of Bristol in the UK stated, "that agrobacterium tumefaciens in GMOs suggests an alternate route by which GM genes could find their way into the natural environment". What's even scarier is that scientists are seeing that AT is capable of transforming human cells as well. Not just plant cells.As if this 



Document Number: 980
No to GMOs" music video is opening the eyes of citizens across the world -- on multiple continents and in multiple languages -- to the dangers of genetically modified foods.The new Spanish edition of the music video features subtitles en español. Watch it here:http://www.naturalnews.tv/v.asp?v=1...More importantly, share this with your Spanish-speaking friends, coworkers or family members so they, too, may learn more about the dangers of genetically modified foods.Yesterday, the Health Ranger launched the Chinese edition of the same music video (http://www.naturalnews.com/030663_G...), which is available on NaturalNews.TV: http://www.naturalnews.tv/v.asp?v=4...Both the Spanish and Chinese editions of the music video are also available on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/user/TheHeal..."With this song subtitled en español, I really hope to reach out to all my Spanish-speaking friends, all around the world, who are ready to join the resistance against the food corporations that are trying to steal from us our collective future," said Mike Adams, the creator of the song. "The rich history of Latin America teaches us all that when wealthy corporations take control over the food, it can only end in treachery and the suffering of the People. With this song, I stand for the rights of the People to control their own destiny, to feed their 



Document Number: 2406
the Economist's poll servers crashed hard and stayed offline for the entire weekend.Before this happened, we were winning the vote, of course. Word had spread among the natural health community, and we all began calling for people to vote. Right after we published our article, NO votes from readers all around the world started to flood in, and we saw the survey begin to shift even more strongly in our favor. Had The Economist's servers actually been able to handle the voting, I have no doubt the final vote would have been 70% against GMOs and 30% in favor.But as it stood, with their servers offline, the voting was halted at 62% no and 38% yes. Still a victory against the idea of GMOs, of course, but nowhere near the numbers that should have been recorded.The Economist explains their server problem"We had a technical problem with our site," explains Tom Standage, the Digital Editor for the magazine."During the last few days of the debate the address of the staging server was circulated on a number of environmental mailing lists, and on Twitter. This caused a sudden flood of "no" votes on the staging server, causing the underlying database to collapse 



Document Number: 4549
healthy bacteria. But there's one problem. Eating one serving of GMO foods has been found to change the genetic structure of our healthy bacteria. Literally, some GMO foods might be altering our healthy bacteria so they'll now produce concentrated pesticides in our guts for the rest of our lives.GMOs may also be changing our healthy bacteria on a genetic level, so they'll continually produce abnormal proteins inside us. Because our ever-working DNA runs on proteins, throwing abnormal proteins into the mix can be the source of all sorts of serious and unpredictable problems. Yet, evidence from the only human GMO feeding trial ever published shows it's likely that GMOs have taken our once healthy bacteria that are designed to protect us - and turned them into a major toxicity source. In this manner, it's likely that GMOs have made our colons toxic beyond belief.One serving of GM soy was all it took to see the genetic mutation of our healthy bacteria -- and you'd be a rare individual not to have had thousands of servings of GMOs in your lifetime, let alone just one. In Europe, where GM foods aren't as prevalent as in other parts of the world, the 



Document Number: 9208
force GMOs onto European countries by making those countries pay a steep price if they resist.The cable reveals the words of Craig Stapleton, the US ambassador to France, who was pushing the commercial interests of the biotech industry by attempting to force GMOs into France. In his own words (below), he expresses his frustration with the idea that France might pass environmental laws that would hamper the expansion of GMOs:"Europe is moving backwards not forwards on this issue with France playing a leading role, along with Austria, Italy and even the [European] Commission... Moving to retaliation will make clear that the current path has real costs to EU interests and could help strengthen European pro-biotech voice."Got that so far? His own words: "Retaliation" as a way to "make [it] clear" that resisting GMOs will have a price.Stapleton goes on to say something rather incredible:"Country team Paris recommends that we calibrate a target retaliation list that causes some pain across the EU since this is a collective responsibility, but that also focuses in part on the worst culprits. The list should be measured rather than vicious and must be sustainable over the long term, since we should not expect an early 



Document Number: 4861
GMO sugar beets, are now found in thousands of grocery food items.While all this is going on, the FDA is making every effort to prevent the public from knowing the truth about GMOs in their foods. They've claimed that requiring GE foods to be accurately labeled would be "confusing" to consumers. The upshot is that they have no intention to require mandatory GMO labeling of food products, and in fact the FDA seems committed to making sure consumers are left in the dark (as usual).As the editor of NaturalNews, I've been fighting hard to raise public awareness about the dangers of GMOs through articles, videos and music. But there's another person who has been doing even more -- for about 15 years -- to protect you from the dangers of genetically modified foods.His name is Jeffrey Smith, and he's the executive director of the non-profit Institute for Responsible Technology (IRT).Today, Jeffrey works long hours, seven days a week to appear on radio and TV shows, to produce videos and documentaries and to fight for real change that would end the era of genetically engineered foods. He does this on a shoestring budget.But even that small budget barely makes ends meet. 



Document Number: 8145
victories we've collectively achieved:High-Fructose Corn Syrup exposedWe've been victorious in spreading the word about the dangers of high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), which I call "liquid sugar crack." The public has learned so much about the dangers of this refined ingredient that food manufacturers are now switching away from HFCS and using more natural refined ingredients (such as evaporated cane juice, which is far better for you than HFCS).You can even buy Hunt's Ketchup now, which declares right on the front label, "NO High Fructose Corn Syrup!"Not surprisingly, the Corn Refiners Association has spent millions of dollars trying to obfuscate this issue by claiming HFCS is perfectly good for you. They've attacked virtually every news organization that writes about HFCS, and they run television ads that try to spin the issue in their direction, but they've failed! The public still knows that HFCS is linked to diabetes and obesity, and they don't want any more of this refined liquid sugar in their diets.BPA - the plastics chemicalThe truth has also come out recently about the dangers of Bisphenol-A (BPA), also known as the "plastics chemical." This chemical, which is found in virtually all canned foods (it's in the can liner), plastic 



Document Number: 9815
this new song takes aim at the biotech industry by exposing the dangers of genetically engineered foods while promoting the Non-GMO Project Verified logo that helps consumers identify which foods are free from dangerous GMOs.The music video is available now on the NaturalNews.TV video site:http://naturalnews.tv/v.asp?v=B459F...It is also available on YouTube at:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HnN6...The video features rap lines from Jeffrey Smith, executive director of the Institute for Responsible Technology (www.ResponsibleTechnology.org), a non-profit educational group that teaches consumers about the many dangers of genetically engineered foods. IRT also supports mandatory labeling of GMO foods so that consumers may choose to avoid them.The "Just Say No to GMO" song can be downloaded as a free MP3 file at http://www.naturalnews.com/NoGMOThat same page offers song lyrics, ringtones, videos, commentary and information resources where consumers can learn more about the dangers of GMO foods."Just Say No to GMO" is the fifth song in Mike Adams' album "Beyond All Reason," available for free at: www.NaturalNews.com/Music"I'm really excited to be able to sing about the dangers of GMOs and help alert people to what's really in their foods," Adams said. "This is an issue that touches the lives of virtually everyone. Genetically engineered foods have invaded our food supply, and 



Document Number: 1712
occur in the next two years will rock the foundations of our economies, governments and belief systems. In the end, after considerable turmoil, I see a great expansion of human consciousness and a maturing of the human race. Here are the details...More people growing their own foodBeginning in 2011 and continuing for many years beyond, we will see an explosion in the number of people growing their own food. People see the big trends in the food supply fast approaching: GMO contamination of crops, the loss of local food production due to FDA interference, the crackdown on small farmers, and even disruptions in the global food supply.As people realize the importance of having their own home-grown source of food, we will see a surge in backyard gardens, food storage and in-home production methods such as sprouting and food dehydrating.We will see a strong "back to basics" interest surge leading up to 2012, with many people choosing to move out of high-density cities (or even high-density nations) and seek self-reliance in more rural areas.This will also reveal renewed interest in home-grown meat production with more people growing (and eating) their own chickens and cows rather than relying on processed, factory-farmed meats.Increased 



Document Number: 4142
every toxin, contamination and chemical disaster that now infects our planet has been evangelized in the name of "science."Where "science" used to be highly regarded in the 1950's, today the term is largely exploited by pharmaceutical companies, biotech giants and chemical companies to push their own for-profit agendas. Actual science has little to do with the schemes now being pushed under the veil of science.To make matters even worse for the sciences, many so-called "science bloggers" have been revealed to have financial ties to the very same companies whose profits are shored up by their activities (http://www.ageofautism.com/2010/08/...).Rather than defending any sort of scientific truth, science bloggers have become the internet whores of Big Pharma, Monsanto, pesticide manufacturers, chemical companies and toxic mercury factories. There's hardly a dangerous chemical in widespread use today that the science bloggers haven't venomously defended as safe and effective. Many are just blatantly paid off by corporate entities to run around the internet pushing GMOs, chemicals and vaccines.This realization has caused the science bloggers to be widely ridiculed by intelligent people who see right through their thinly-veiled (but well-funded) disinformation campaigns. Where science bloggers once had credibility, they now are seen as intellectual prostitutes for dangerous 



Document Number: 1460
Chambliss, Sen. Pat Roberts) attempted to spin GMOs as being "scientific."They urged the USDA to "return to a science based regulatory system" and claimed that "science strongly supports the safety of GE alfalfa." (http://agriculture.house.gov/press/...)The implication, of course, is that anyone who opposes GMOs is "unscientific" (and therefore stupid). The letter further implies that any USDA opposition to GMOs is purely political in nature and not based on science.Apparently the cabal of GMO pseudoscientists have forgotten one of the most important principles of science: The Precautionary Principle which states that when dealing with large-scale unknowns (such as modifying the genetic code of the world's food crops), it is wise to err on the side of caution.Intellectually dishonest spinThis effort to characterize GMO opposition as "unscientific" is just the latest outlandish spin campaign that attempts to reframe the entire GMO debate as "scientific versus unscientific." You're either in favor of GMOs, the twisted logic goes, or you're against science!In reality, it's not actually science that's behind GMOs but rather corporate greed, public relations, lobbying and the financial influence of members of Congress. Today, Frank Lucas, Saxby Chambliss and Pat Roberts all effectively painted signs on their foreheads that read, "GMO sellout."Another key 



Document Number: 7974
being written about as if they were new concepts. Genetic modification of food (GMO) is on of those topics. I am glad to see more awareness but I still feel as if not enough people clearly understand this issue. First of all, it has been clearly established that GMO foods cannot feed the multitudes, regardless of what the media is reporting. Other concerns involve the alteration of the lining of your gastrointestinal system, and no one knows what can come of this, ten years or more in the future. We do know, however, that using specific herbicides and pesticides in commercial agriculture has, during this time, led to failed crops, over growth of weeds, and what perhaps is one of the largest cover-ups in agriculture. Each new article I read really raises the hair on the back of my neck. It should do the same to you. As I write this I think how the FDA plans to review whether or not to allow for GMO fish. If this isn’t bad enough, because we know farm-raised fish will raise cholesterol levels and is often found to be contaminated with killer chemicals, we are in the ‘no label zone’. Imagine not 



Document Number: 6040
around the world. The Non-GMO Project sponsored activist Phil Bereano’s participation in this session, and in so doing helped to ensure that the voices of the Activist and NGO communities would be heard, in an industry-dominated debate. Find below Dr. Bereano’s report on the outcome of the session, with links to the relevant Codex Alimentarius documents: NON-GMO PROJECT REPORTBACK Codex Committee on Food Labeling 39th Session, Quebec, Canada May 2011 Labeling of GE Foods The Codex Alimentarius Commission is a somewhat obscure UN agency (joint between the World Health Organization and the Food and Agricultural Organization) which sets international norms for food safety and the food trade. It operates through a number of issue-area committees. After nearly two decades of contentious debate, the Codex Committee on Food Labeling has finally adopted a Guideline on labeling of GE foods. Although the text is not as strong as many countries and NGOs would have liked, the adopted language does provide guidance to countries which have requested it. Since the WTO decided in 1995 that it would follow Codex rules in international trade disputes, this text would also appear to provide protection against a WTO challenge to a national labeling scheme that is 



Document Number: 5795
of gray to simple black and white. Sometimes that’s the only way to achieve a reassuring sense that we know where we stand (and therefore who we are). As a college student a decade ago, I devoted endless hours to organizing protests against the Keck Graduate Institute, the first university in the world dedicated solely to biotechnology. When we successfully shut down their inaugural celebration, I wrote about it in the Earth First! Journal. In 2001 I attended the Ruckus Society’s “Biojustice” Action Camp, where I learned about the threats posed by the new science of genetic engineering, and how to scale a building or lock myself to the axle of a car if an action called for those skills. It was all incredibly exhilarating, and my friends and I did accomplish some things of lasting value, including the protection of what remains one of the largest plots of endangered Coastal Sage Scrub habitat in Los Angeles County. As time passes, though, what I cherish most from my early activist days is not the rush of combat, but the satisfaction I experienced in collaborating with like-minded allies. The true power behind everything we accomplished came from our ability to work 



Document Number: 7734
of herbicide glyphosate began to rely on a single system for weed management — the use of glyphosate, sold under brand name Roundup and manufactured by Monsanto. As Dr. David A. Mortensen of the Pennsylvania State University noted in his testimony before the Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee on July 28, 2010, “[i]n evolutionary terms, widespread and persistent glyphosate use without diversity in weed control practices is a strong selection pressure for weeds able to survive glyphosate.” (”Mortensen Testimony”). In other words, get ready for the invasion of superweeds. Fast-forward fourteen years later and farmers around the world are dealing with superweeds, the number of which went from zero in 1995 to 19 in June of 2010. These superweeds grow fast, big and wide in a matter of days. Pig weed, for example, is a superweed that “grows up to three inches a day, and at its base it’s as thick as a baseball bat. It kills crops and destroys heavy machinery, keeping farmers from bringing their combines and cotton pickers into the fields.” Welcome to today’s farming where farmers are facing a dramatic rise in the number of weed species that are resistant to 



Document Number: 1713
the organic industry, and the only no-GMO certifier in North America, has kicked off a GM-free month. Ruh-roh — October includes Halloween. Since half of the refined sugar in the US is genetically modified, coming from GM sugar beets, finding GM-free candy might be a little hard. Though GM beets are now illegal until further notice, what’s on the shelves today is most likely made from last year’s crops. The NGP product page lets you see what’s already verified as being GMO-free and what’s under review. You could pass out candy bars or other treats made by: Endangered Species Chocolates EnviroKids Organic Luna & Larry’s Coconut Bliss So Delicious Funky Monkey Snacks Taste of Nature’s 100% certified organic exotic bars are also vegan and Kosher. Communications Director for the Non-GMO Project, Skylar Boorman, told Food Freedom, “Through our Product Verification Program, a growing number of products have become ‘Non-GMO Project Verified’ and bear our seal.” Right now, that’s 58 vendors, he said, amounting to 1,569* products verified so far. As of October 9** 191 vendors have enrolled with the program. One company, 365 Everyday Value, submitted over 700 of its products for review, with 29 now GM-free verified. The non-profit 



Document Number: 6791
awareness campaign launched by the Non GMO Project, perhaps now is a good time to pay attention. As you look at each food item and its ingredients, consider these fundamental unanswered questions concerning genetically modified (GM) foods — which are most foods that you eat today. Disturbingly, while we are force-fed “wholesome” messages about the alleged benefits of GM foods, a decade and a half after the first GM crops went commercial many of the same concerns persist. Read on and find out whether you want frankenfood to be your next meal. 1. Human Health Concerns Many scientists, doctors and health advocates raise concerns about the unintended impact of GMOs on human health. Yes, because there is no independent research (and in fact, seed companies’ agreements forbid the use of seeds for independent research), nobody can say with any degree of certainty that GMOs are safe. And so it is not surprising that there are unresolved questions concerning the potential alteration in human genome, allergenicity of introduced genes and high toxin production in plants and animals that may lead to long-term health effects. What’s more is that certain GMOs may also have the potential to further lower the effectiveness of 



Document Number: 8679
two scrambled eggs to meat recalls warning us about e. Coli in our hamburgers, I can’t help but yearn for simpler times. But the latest food headline sounds like it’s out of a sci-fi movie: “Genetically Modified Salmon Safe to Eat, FDA Report Says”. A fish designed to eat year round. And it comes with an “on switch.” Could things get any stranger? Now if you’re anything like me, you may not have been aware that about fifteen years ago a new technology was introduced into our food supply called “genetic engineering” since it hasn’t gotten a whole lot of attention in the U.S. media. But from corn to milk to fish, the United States started manipulating the DNA of our food using all kinds of wild sounding tools and technology beginning in the mid 1990s in an effort to drive profitability for agricultural companies. Using instruments like “gene guns” that sound like they are out of a sci-fi movie, scientists began to manipulate the DNA of our food supply and insert things like new proteins and insecticides into the genetic makeup of about 90% of our soybeans, 60% of our corn and even some of the animals that we 



Document Number: 2265
it’s a lot easier said than done! A huge part of the challenge is that by the time the Project was created, GMOs had already been in production across the U.S. and Canada for close to 10 years. Contamination risks to seeds, crops, ingredients and products had been steadily increasing without any standardized set of best practices in use to identify and stop contamination. But whereas this difficult reality had previously paralyzed all efforts to address the problem, the Non-GMO Project took a different approach. We decided that the lack of a perfect solution was no excuse not to try, and we believed that with enough hard work and collaborative spirit we could improve the situation, rather than allowing it to worsen. Our efforts are paying off, and while our work on the Project’s consensus-based Standard and independent Product Verification Program continues to be incredibly complex, we have succeeded in establishing an industry-wide system for addressing contamination and a “Non-GMO Project Verified” seal that is now appearing on retail products. So what does “Non-GMO Project Verified” mean? First of all, we want you to understand what it doesn’t mean. It is not a guarantee that the product is 100% GMO 



Document Number: 7222
quoted in the Kansas City Star, March 7, 1994 After two decades of biotech bullying and force-feeding unlabeled and hazardous genetically engineered (GE) foods to animals and humans, it's time to move beyond defensive measures and go on the offensive. With organic farming, climate stability, and public health under the gun of the gene engineers and their partners in crime, it's time to do more than complain. With over 1/3 of U.S. cropland already contaminated with Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs), with mounting scientific evidence that GMOs cause cancer, birth defects, and serious food allergies and with new biotech mutants like alfalfa, lawn grass, ethanol-ready corn, 2,4 D-resistant crops, and genetically engineered trees and animals in the pipeline, time is running out. Living in Monsanto Nation there can be no such thing as "coexistence." It is impossible to coexist with a reckless industry that endangers public health, bribes public officials, corrupts scientists, manipulates the media, destroys biodiversity, kills the soil, pollutes the environment, tortures and poisons animals, destabilizes the climate, and economically enslaves the world's 1.5 billion seed-saving small farmers. It's time to take down the Biotech Behemoth, before the living web of biodiversity is terminated. But, to bring down Goliath 



Document Number: 9075
with the genes of a Chinook salmon and the eel-like ocean pout to make it grow twice as fast. On the contrary, genetic engineering increases the salmon's mortality, disease and deformity. So, why would the FDA treat a the first genetically engineered animal for human consumption like a drug? The idea came from the biotech industry. They knew that the FDA's animal drug process would keep companies' "proprietary" information secret, while limiting public participation and downplaying food safety concerns. Genius. Since 1992, the FDA has operated under the legal fiction created by the Bush-Quayle Administration that there is no risk associated with the human consumption of genetically engineered plants and animals. The FDA explains that DNA is Generally Recognized as Safe, so genetically engineered DNA is safe, too, and it doesn't have to be safety tested. A human study conducted by the UK's Food Standards Agency found that consuming genetically engineered soy can result in "horizontal gene transfer," where the bacteria of the gut takes up the soy's modified DNA. With GMO salmon, the bacteria of our digestive tracks could take up the engineered salmon genes, but the FDA isn't looking into whether this would happen or how it might 



Document Number: 2574
has removed agricultural subsidies and opened Indian agriculture to the global market. Small farmers are often trapped in a cycle of insurmountable debt, leading many to take their lives out of sheer desperation. We speak with Smita Narula of the Center for Human Rights and Global Justice at New York University Law School, co-author of a new report on farmer suicides in India.Surely Thomas Friedman will give us the silver lining in a NYT op ed.that figure is staggering.................This has to be the saddest goddamn planet in the universe.No that's a false statement. The true statement is that there are about 5 - 12% of the population who are psychopaths and are hellbent on destruction. The destroy everything they see, want or touch. These are the ones who must be removed from society so they can no longer hate and destroy the human race and the planet.What you say is true of course, but it only reinforces what I said. These vicious epigones are defective in every respect but one: complete disregard for anyone or anything, and not for any reason except the ones they invent.What chance do I have against them? This has been the problem for the last 



Document Number: 4107
data from 19 studies and found that parameters including blood and urine biochemistry and organ weights were significantly disrupted in the GM-fed animals. The kidneys of males were the most affected, experiencing 43.5 percent of all the changes. The livers of females followed at more than 30 percent. Other organs may have been affected too, including the heart and spleen, and blood cells. According to the Institute for Responsible Technology: "The GM soybean and corn varieties used in the feeding trials 'constitute 83 percent of the commercialized GMOs' that are currently consumed by billions of people. While the findings may have serious ramifications for the human population, the authors demonstrate how a multitude of GMO-related health problems could easily pass undetected through the superficial and largely incompetent safety assessments that are used around the world." Further, the biotechnology firm Monsanto is only an FDA approval away from its latest monstrosity -- soybeans that have been genetically modified to produce omega-3 fats. That FDA approval is expected this year. Monsanto plans to include GM soybean oil in every product it can -- baked goods, baking mixes, breakfast cereals, cheeses, frozen dairy desserts, pasta, gravies and sauces, fruit juices, snack foods, candy, 



Document Number: 9583
or more of winter's still deathly gray industrial farmland, I came face to face with the newly famous Dr. Don M. Huber in the cave-dark meeting room of the Black Horse Inn just outside the American Heartland village of Creighton, Nebraska. On the morning of March 24, along with about 80 farmers and Extension agents, I listened as Huber discoursed with erudition and eloquence upon industrial farming practices that may be impacting nearly every morsel of food produced on the planet, and that subsequently may also be having staggeringly serious health consequences for plants, animals, and human beings. Huber is emeritus soil scientist of Purdue University, and a retired U.S. Army Colonel who served as an intelligence analyst, for 41 years, active and reserves. In Nebraska, he stood ramrod straight for three hours with no notes and spoke with an astonishing depth and range of knowledge on crucial, controversial matters of soil science, genetic engineering, and the profound impact of the widely used herbicide glyphosate upon soil and plants, and ultimately upon the health of animals and human beings. Dressed in a conservative dark suit and tie, Huber set the stage for his presentation by observing that he has been 



Document Number: 6482
as there has been no report in the literature of human health effects in workers or others exposed to carbon nanotubes or carbon nanofibers. When animals (mostly rodents) have been exposed to these materials, the findings have ranged from acute inflammatory changes in the lungs to interstitial fibrosis to mesothelial tumors. Because some of the nano-materials may have durability/persistence and aspect ratios similar to asbestos fibers, there have been findings similar to "asbestos-type pathology". However, there have also been acute inflammatory changes. As is stated in this report, "differences in results from animal studies have been attributed to differences in physicochemical properties, surface area, the degree of agglomeration of the test material, and differences in the observation period following termination of exposure". The differences in biological effect may also depend upon the presence or absence of residual metal catalysts used in the preparation of these substances. Comments regarding medical surveillance (As listed in Sections 1.1, 6.6, and in Appendix B): General Comment: The recommended medical screening and surveillance recommendations are not specific for possible pulmonary injuries that may occur from inhalation of carbon nanotubes or nanofibers. The recommendations appear to be generic. Radiographic screening and surveillance: At this time, it 



Document Number: 9210
environmental, ethical, and socio-economic hazards of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) and industrial-scale factory farms or CAFOs (Confined Animal Feeding Operations), I am writing to inform your readers about a new consumer campaign calling for Truth-in-Labeling. The campaign, sponsored by the Organic Consumers Association, is calling on conscientious grocers to implement voluntary package or shelf labeling of foods products containing GMOs and/or products coming from large factory farms or CAFOs. Although "USDA Organic" standards and labels prohibit the use of GMOs or CAFO confinement practices, the overwhelming majority of non-organic foods in grocery stores or supermarkets today fail to reveal whether or not they likely contain GMOs or come from a factory farm supply chain. Up to 90 percent of U.S. soy, corn, cotton, canola, and sugar beets are now genetically engineered and routinely laced into foods with no labels or safety testing whatsoever. And of course hapless animals confined in CAFOs are reared on a diet of genetically engineered corn, soy, cottonseed, and drugs. According to the Grocery Manufacturers Association and the Biotechnology Industry Association, approximately 80 percent of current grocery food items contain GMOs; while according to U.S. Department of Agriculture records, the majority of beef, pork, poultry, dairy, 



Document Number: 5087
several weeks ago that they support the so-called "coexistence" of organics with genetically modified (GM) crops. Whole Foods sent a misleading e-mail to its customers on Jan. 21in which they gave the green light to USDA bureaucrats to approve the "conditional deregulation" of Monsanto's genetically engineered, herbicide-resistant alfalfa. However, after sharp criticisms from the OCA and their customers, and in the wake of USDA's unrestricted approval of GE alfalfa and sugar beets, the leaders of the organic industry seem to have changed their tune, issuing strong statements against the USDA approval last week. According to the Organic Consumers Association: "The main reason ... why Whole Foods is pleading for coexistence with Monsanto, Dow, Bayer, Syngenta, BASF and the rest of the biotech bullies, is that they desperately want the controversy surrounding genetically engineered foods and crops to go away. Why? Because they know, just as we do, that two-thirds of [Whole Food's] $9 billion annual sales is derived from so-called 'natural' processed foods and animal products that are contaminated with GMOs." The Organic Consumers Association is also helping people who want to organize or coordinate Millions Against Monsanto and Factory Farms Truth-in-Labeling campaigns in their local community, through this web 



Document Number: 1623
highly controversial GE (genetically engineered) crop that threatens biodiversity and risks bringing economic and ecological disaster to Asia's farms. The leader of the Golden Rice project is Gerald Barry, previously director of research at Monsanto. Sarojeni V. Rengam, executive director of Pesticide Action Network Asia and the Pacific (PAN AP), has called the rice a "Trojan horse." According to Rengam, the rice is "... a public relations stunt pulled by the agri-business corporations to garner acceptance of GE crops and food. The whole idea of GE seeds is to make money." Food Freedom reports: "Golden rice is a Trojan horse for pushing through GE-friendly biosafety regulations under the guise of humanitarian aid. Once in place, these regulations open the door for the biotech industry to bring in commercial, patented GE crops; USAID and Monsanto accomplished exactly this in Kenya with their sweet potato project." In Thailand at least, however, a little known and unpublicized agricultural policy protects Thai rice from the risks of GMO's. The Thai Ministry of Agriculture's "Rice Strategy" is a master plan committed to strengthening the nation's rice production while promoting farmers' livelihoods and consumer confidence -- which includes keeping Thai rice GMO (genetically modified organism)-free. Adding 



Document Number: 3708
the cause was discovered. At that time, the biotech industry maintained that some change in the production of the supplement caused the accident, but our conclusion, based on recently discovered evidence, is that, , a metabolic disturbance, caused by genetic engineering, was the reason for the appearance of the deadly and powerful poison that made the food supplement very harmful, although tests showed it was 99.6% pure. This disaster demonstrates that genetic engineering may give rise to very dangerous unexpected substances, difficult to detect. Unfortunately, the present safety assessment procedure for genetically engineered (GE) foods to detect such unexpected dangerous poisons that may appear through genetic engineering. As all genetically engineered (also called GMO) foods on the market have been approved with this method, all GE foods must be withdrawn to prevent another disaster. The first step should be to immediately label them until withdrawal has been implemented. May 2010: The present campaign by the US government to forbid labelling of GE foods globally may pave the way for a world-wide disaster because the connection with a harmful GE-food will not be discovered in time.[Definition: GE foods = genetically engineered foods = GMO foods]In 1989, a disastrous epidemic broke out 



Document Number: 6873
no need for them to feed the world. For these reasons alone, it is neccessary to ban their use. But there are strong reasons to stop them even if they were safe. These reasons have so far not been considered in the debate:It has now been generally accepted by climate experts that Global Warming will bring about considerable climatic instability and extreme weather conditions, including heavy rains, storms as well as severe droughts.Experience indicates that GE crops may be more delicate than conventional crops. In addition, accumulating evidence are demonstrating that they are less productive. (This is a more advanced text that, for full understanding, needs the study of the article Circumstances that can make GE crops less hardy and less productiveThe insertion of a foreign gene constitutes a significant disturbance for several reasons.The so called promoter DNA, that is always inserted along with the "trait" gene, has the effect of forcing the cell to produce the "trait" protein all the time, 24 hrs a day (see ) . Normally, the protein production of the cell is finely attuned to the needs in every moment. In a GE cell this important energy saving function is overridden by the promoter. Saving 



Document Number: 6464
outright dangerous GE. It is based on the principle of (SE). It states that the only requirement for approval is that the GE food should be "grossly similar" to its natural counterpart. It is based on the scientifically invalid assumption that such similarity grants safety. Every molecular biologist can confirm that this assumption is fundamentally wrong. In reality, a GE food may even not only be grossly similar, but almost completely identical with its natural counterpart (far more than required by the SE principle) and yet contain an unexpected harmful substance. approved on the basis of "substantial equivalence" are not safe. on the market in the world, becasue they have all been approved on the basis of "substantial equivalence". Therefore, it is our conclusion that every GE-food must be withdrawn from the market. food approval is unscientific, being based on incorrect assumptions about the effects of genetic engineering. The assumption is that if it is established that the genetically engineered organism is similar to its natural counterpart, "substantially equivalent", then there is no reason to believe that it is hazardous. food is substantially equivalent, only a limited set of characteristics (selected by the manufacturer) needs to be compared according to 



Document Number: 9107
Greenpeace Germany, by Henning Strodthoff and Christoph Then DATE: December 2003 Is GM maize responsible for deaths of cows in Hesse? In the last few years cows have died without explanation at one of the few farmers in Germany to grow and feed his animals genetically manipulated plants. Five cows died in 2001, and seven in 2002, at a farm in Woelfersheim in the German state of Hesse, while other animals there have also had to be slaughtered. After common errors in feeding and infections had by and large been ruled out as the cause of death, the farmer now suspects Syngenta company GM maize as to blame for the sudden death of his cows. How might the deaths of the animals be linked to this genetically modified maize? What is known so far about the GM maize and why have the authorities failed to make a full investigation? Syngenta has in the meantime compensated the farmer for part of his damages but at the moment refuses to make full compensation. The farmer has called on the authorities and Syngenta to investigate the cases, so far in vain, as a result of which he has now given the facts to 



Document Number: 8757
to Mouse IntestineLiver of Mice Fed GM Soya Works OvertimeAnimals Avoid GM, for Good ReasonsTo see all the reports, subscribe to our house-magazine for this report are available in the ISIS members site. Full details Twelve diary cows died after being fed GM maize and silage. This happened on a farm in Woelfersheim in the state of Hesse, Germany. Glöckner has been growing Bt 176 increasingly in his fields since 1997, and in 2000 and 2001, switched over entirely to GM maize. Shortly thereafter, five of his cows died within four months in 2001, and another seven in 2002. The rate of milk production decreased in some of the remaining cows and others had to be slaughtered because of unknown illnesses.Syngenta obtained a European license to market GM maize Bt 176 in 1997 and is currently growing 20 000 hectares commercially in Spain. The US license for the crop expired in 2001 and was not renewed. Austria, Luxembourg and Italy have banned its cultivation. In Germany, safety concerns were raised in early 2000, causing the German Robert Koch Institute to announce " the suspension of the authorisation for putting the maize line 00256-176 and its derivatives on the market, unless 



Document Number: 7916
soya bean developed by Monsanto to be resistant to its pesticide, Roundup. It was added to the food of female rats, starting two weeks before they conceived, continuing through pregnancy, birth and nursing. Others were given non-GM soya and a third group was given no soya at all. 36 per cent of the young of the rats fed the GE soya were severely underweight, compared to 6 per cent of the offspring of the other groups. More alarmingly, 55.6 per cent of those born to mothers on the GE diet perished within three weeks of birth, compared to 9 per cent of the offspring of those fed normal soya, and 6.8 per cent of the young of those given no soya at all. "The morphology and biochemical structures of rats are very similar to those of humans, and this makes the results very disturbing" said Dr Ermakova. "They point to a risk for mothers and their babies." The independent, UK, 8 Jan 2006The cause is either harmful effects of the herbicide in the Genetically engineered Soy or harmful effects from the genetically engineered genes (transgenes). Such harmful effects have been predicted on the basis of experimental research, so the effect 



Document Number: 1149
Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) promoter. This DNA is suspected to be cancerogenic. Moreover the CaMV is related to human viruses that cause serious diseases (AIDS and Hepatitis B). The corn grains on one cob of GE corn contain hundreds of millions of such CaMV DNA. This is just one of several studies that have established that the genes in the body may take up potentially harmful, patogenic viral DNA from GE food. It has not been proven that it is safe to ingest large amounts of such dangerous virus genes. Still the GE foods containing them has been approved for sale and are found on the shelves all over the US and other countriesPieces of DNA from GM Bt corn have been detectedin chicken tissues including muscles (the meat), liver, kidney and spleen.The chicken had eaten only the Bt corn for 32 days. The DNA polymerase technique (PCR) was used. This is a standard method for identifying DNA. The Bt-gene itself was however not found. But this depends on special properties of the used examination technique according to professor Jahreis, who leads the research group at Friedrich-Schiller-Universität in Jena, Germany. "You can however reckon that there were also pieces of 



Document Number: 5022
study on hepatocytes from mice fed on GM soybean, in order to investigate eventual modifications of nuclear components of these cells involved in multiple metabolic pathways related to food processing... Our observations demonstrate significant modifications of some nuclear features in GM-fed mice. In particular, GM fed-mice show irregularly shaped nuclei, which generally represents an index of high metabolic rate, and a higher number of nuclear pores, suggestive of intense molecular trafficking. Moreover, the roundish nucleoli of control animals change in more irregular nucleoli with numerous small fibrillar centres and abundant dense fibrillar component in GM-fed mice, modifications typical of increased metabolic rate. Accordingly, nucleoplasmic (snRNPs and SC-35) and nucleolar (fibrillarin) splicing factors are more abundant in hepatocyte nuclei of GM-fed than in control mice. In conclusion, our data suggest that GM soybean intake can influence hepatocyte [liver cell] nuclear features in young and adult mice." Malatesta M, Caporaloni C, Gavaudan S, et al "Ultrastructural Morphometrical and Immunocytochemical Analyses of Hepatocyte Nuclei from Mice Fed on Genetically Modified Soybean". Vol. 27 (2002) , No. 4 pp.173-18. http://www.gmwatch.org/archive2.asp?arcid=3622Similar changes in Pancreas and TestesThe same research team found similar ultramicroscopic changes in the pancreas and testicles of mice fed RR soybean. Malatesta M., 



Document Number: 6992
sheep were reported dead after grazing on post-harvest Bt cotton crops; the symptoms and post-mortem findings strongly suggest they died from severe toxicity. This was uncovered in a preliminary investigation conducted by civil society organisations in just four villages in the Warangal district of Andhra Pradesh in India. The actual problem is likely to be much greater. Grazing lands decline as commercial crops increaseGrazing lands in Warangal district have declined steeply as commercial crop cultivation expanded in recent years, and it has become customary for sheep and goats to be allowed to graze on crop residues after harvest. This year, there have been several media reports of sharp increases in the deaths of sheep and goats after grazing in Bt cotton fields. There were similar reports in 2005, when complaints were lodged with the Joint Director of Agriculture by a few NGOs, but no action has resulted. Between February and March 2006, the shepherds of Warangal district again reported high mortality in their flocks after grazing in harvested Bt cotton fields. Some shepherds reported to the animal husbandry department and requested confirmation on whether the deaths were due to grazing on Bt cotton. Still getting no response, a fact-finding team 



Document Number: 483
about the same as it was in the US in 1994. In Sweden, GE foods were not available during that time period. It seems likely that GE foods are the reason.Why this great increase of virus-caused diseases in the US?Mae-Wan Ho, director of the Institue of Science in the Society, and an expert on food biotechnology notes in a recent report that there is a very pronounced difference between Sweden and the US in one respect - the rate of virus-caused illnesses. While in Sweden, viruses were the cause in only 9% of the cases, they were so in 80% of the cases in the USA.The reason for this increase is unknown. But Mae-Wan Ho points out that the use of genetically engineered foods has increased enormously in the US since 1994. By comparison, in Sweden, almost no GE foods were used in 1999.GE crops can generate new virusesHo suspects that a possible reason might be that GE foods may give rise to new viruses. This has been well established scientifically (even the biotech firm Monsanto has acknowledged this). The reason is that every cell in a GE plants contains parts of virus genes that can combine with the genes 



Document Number: 8765
the UK government wanted to put on the National Seed Register, I had the opportunity to review evidence on how animals respond to GM food. The evidence makes interesting reading.Chardon LL is a GM maize engineered for tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate. The whole plant is intended as cattle-feed, but no experiments on whether this is safe or suitable has been carried out.Approval of the application of Aventis for commercial growing of this maize in the UK was granted on the basis of two animal-feeding experiments, one on feeding kernels to chickens and the other on feeding the isolated GM protein to rats. In both experiments, the investigators concluded that the tested animals consumed food and gained weight normally.However, reanalysis of the data led to a different conclusion.The first experiment fed Chardon LL maize kernels to 280 young broiler chickens over 42 days, purportedly to detect differences in nutrient quality of corn samples. All the chickens were allowed to eat at will.The official report said: “Results of live bird traits … show that source of corn … had no effect on body weight, feed intake, … or percent mortality over the experimental period …” and “Glufosinate tolerant corn from the 



Document Number: 4015
to the public in saying that they were not aware of any doubts about the safety of the foods among scientists. Therefore, they said, GE foods were equally safe as conventionally bred foods. FDA scientists had, on the contrary, warned that bioengineering had a recognized potential to produce unexpected and unpredictable toxins, carcinogens and allergens -- hazards not ordinarily involved with conventional breeding. These warnings were suppressed by FDA. FDA scientists had found that safety assessment of the tomato FlavrSavr indicated that it might have harmful gastrointestinal effects. This important finding was suppressed by FDA. FDA declared, in spite of said indications of harmfulness, that FlavrSavr was found safe. FDA further declared that the absence of any signs of harmfulness in the FlavrSavr tomato justifies a general relaxation of the demands on safety assessment of GE foods. In addition to being based on a lie, this conclusion has no scientific basis as every instance of genetic engineering is unique and therefore does not allow any generalization about the safety of GE foods. The Alliance for Biointegrity finds that this evidence shows the agency violated the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act in allowing genetically engineered foods to be marketed without 



Document Number: 8946
this was a great sensation. So Pusztai's critisim was aired all over the world. But a few days later again, all over the world, the story was aired that he was an old man (68) who had confused his results, making wrong conclusions. This was however a lie. Both me and other scientists who talked with him when this happened found that his mind was perfectly clear. The "senility" story was part of a plot aimed at destroying his credibility. He was sacked by his employer, Rowett Research Instiute, the leading nutrition research institute in UK. Pusztai was heavily attacked by fellow scientists, especially the British Royal Society (the foremost scientific organization, corresponding to the National Academy of Science in other countries). He was expelled from the illustrious international Lectin research group that he had founded. But the world leading medical journal, Lancet, found these attacks unfair and published Pusztai's research. This was a first step towards his rehabilitation as a scientist that Pusztai has struggled hard for ever since these concerted attacks started. Several independent scientists, including PSRAST, have been supporting his case, finding the attacks on him unscientific, being dictated by partial interests in favor of genetic engineering. 



Document Number: 8861
this site - Very useful and comprehensive - Millions have visited this site Help us increase the awareness in the world(To return here wherever you are in the site, click on "Starting points" in the list of links at the bottom of every page)For you who got lost while following the links from Here you get back to alternatively: contains all the links listed below and many more. (It is actually the same as as it contains helpful brief comments and presents the issue in an orderly sequence that brings you to a good understanding in a comfortable way. Also helpful for recurrent visitors.If you believe that science knows what it is doing when genes are engineered, read:"Introduction to genetic engineering.""Is our knowledge sufficient for safe use biotechnology?" If you believe the environmental and health safety effects of GE food have been carefully investigated, read this "Is there sufficient scientific knowledge to ensure safe commercial exploitation of genetically engineered foods?"If you believe that GE foods on the market have been tested in a proper way, take a look here:Inadequate safety assessment of GE foodsIf you want to know what foods may be genetically engineered, read: "What GE foods are on 



Document Number: 7924
of human survival: the provision of our daily bread. "Control the food and you control the people."This is no ordinary book about the perils of GMO.  Engdahl takes the reader inside the corridors of power, into the backrooms of the science labs, behind closed doors in the corporate boardrooms. The author cogently reveals a diabolical World of profit-driven political intrigue, government corruption and coercion, where genetic manipulation and the patenting of life forms are used to gain worldwide control over food production. If the book often reads as a crime story, that should come as no surprise. For that is what it is.Engdahl's carefully argued critique goes far beyond the familiar controversies surrounding the practice of genetic modification as a scientific technique. The book is an eye-opener, a must-read for all those committed to the causes of social justice and World peace. F. William Engdahl is a leading analyst of the New World Order, author of the best-selling book on oil and geopolitics, A Century of War: Anglo-American Politics and the New World Order,’ His writings have been translated into more than a dozen languages. What is so frightening about Engdahl's vision of the world is that it is so real. Although 



Document Number: 7148
made.Unexpected dangerous substances may be present in GE foodsthe procedure for assessing the safety of GE foods is not designed to detect them. Most of soy and corn products in the US and Canada are GE and labeling is not required there. Organic products are reliably GE-free. Top researchers confirm that the results of genetic engineering are unpredictableScientists are being harassed if they tell the truth about GMO hazards. Research on GMO hazards is being suppressed and negative research reports have been destroyed. Scientist who say GMO-foods are safe are not seldom lying out of fear of becoming unemployed and unable to get any new research job. Read the alarming stories.These are just a few of the alarming facts about GMO foods. For more, With best-selling author Jeffrey SmithThis is a revealing video interview about the corruption of FDA and dishonest science that made it possible to launch GMOs in spite of warnings of FDAs own scientists. It also covers major hazards including concrete examples of severe damage from GMOs. We recommend Jeffrey M Smith's books: American doctors warn: Avoid Genetically Modifed FoodThe American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM)"Several animal studies indicate serious health risks associated with GM food," including 



Document Number: 3444
knowledge of its environmental consequeces. This is an exciting and creative political thriller, which focuses on the negative effects of genetically engineered foods. It is written by a competent physician and White House insider.Below you find some of the most important news in recent years.New campaign against GE foods in EuropeGM foods and crops were virtually excluded from the European Union in the 1990s by scientific objections and consumer concerns. But now they are once again being strongly promoted in Europe by the biotechnology industry, putting our health and environment at risk. This has inspired the launching of the BanGMOfood campaign. They have produced some excellent information materials, see . We welcome this campaign, because the EU-commission has shown a worrisome trend towards increasing lenience to the biotech industry in spite of the strong evidence about the hazards of GMO foods. Recent research proves - gene technology is inherently unsafeGene technology is based on the belief that genes are carriers of single traits. So it was believed that you can transfer traits by transferring single genes. But in June 2007 a worldwide consensus was reached among leading scientists that this is definitely wrong. The effects of every gene is determined 



Document Number: 1734
may be not only unwise, but dange- rous. Potentially, it could breed new animal and plant diseases, new sources of cancer, novel epidemics." in Medicine 1967. Higgins Professor of Biology, Harvard University. (From: 'The Case Against Genetic Engineering' by George Wald, in The Recombinatnt DNA Debate, Jackson and Stich, eds. P. 127-128. ;Reprinted from The Sciences, Sept./Oct. 1976 issue) , which is exactly the same as The latter term was invented by PR firms when it was realized that genetic engineering underscored the fact that the plants were artifcially manipulated. The idea was to create a term that would create less suspicion and doubts among consumers. We use GE because we find it unjustified to support the attempts of PR firms to manipulate the public to believe that genetic engineering is just a harmless modification of food organisms.To get an idea of the site as a whole, you can do the Basic background knowledge about GEA brief and simple introduction to genetics and genetic engineering. - An exellent pedagogical text about genes and genetic engineering for children with nice comic strip illustrations. Also a grown up who forgot most about genes and biology would enjoy it and get a comfortable 



Document Number: 1606
is virtually impossible to even conceive of a testing procedure to assess the health effects of genetically engineered foods when introduced into the food chain, nor is there any valid nutritional or public interest reason for their introduction.microbiologist, medical doctor, and Professor of Food Safety at Leeds University, famous for his prediction of the dangers of "Mad cow disease" more than seven years ago. Recently he has spoken out strongly against the introduction of genetically engineered foods, because of 'the essentially unlimited health risks'Why unpredictable substances may appear An introduction along with a text by The Safety of Genetically Engineered FoodsAn interdisciplinary report by ten scientists edited by Dr Jaan Suurkula.The reasons why hazardous substances may be createdNo safety assessment methods are fully reliableInadequate safety assessment of GE foodsThe GE foods on the market have not been reliably tested for safety.The Showa Denko Tryptophan disaster - new evidence - New evidence makes it hihgly that genetic engineering caused this tragic accident killing 37 and permanently disabling 1.500 people.Summary of the GE tryptophan catastrophe A summary about the serious accident associated with the use of genetically engineered bacteria for tryptophan manufacture. Plant-Pesticide toxins in GE-foodPesticide resistance genes are popular subjects for 



Document Number: 3054
the release of Genetically Modified Organisms to the European Parliament,Adobe Acrobat Reader that can be downoaded hereComment on the EU policy concerning release of GE organismsThe number of possibilities how the release of Genetically Engineered organisms into the environment may upset the ecology is very large. The possible complications are extremely difficult to evaluate. With few exceptions, governments all over the world are allowing the release of GE organisms into nature without requiring careful scientific investigation of the environmental consequences. with the environment with unknown and unpredictable consequences, especially as the released genes cannot be recalled.ESA Statement on Genetically Modified Organisms. The Ecological Society of America represents 7,800 ecological scientists. This statement briefly summarizes potential hazards. In practice it rejects the present approval policy in the U.S., and most other countries, that does not require a careful scrutiny of environmental consequences. Quote: "... some GMOs can possess genuinely new characteristics that may require greater scrutiny than organisms produced by traditional techniques of plant and animal breeding. Since long-term ecological impacts of GMOs may be extremely difficult to predict or study prior to commercialization, ESA strongly recommends a cautious approach to releasing GMOs into the environment." "Is there sufficient knowledge about 



Document Number: 7542
hunger problemThird World reactions to globalization attemptsPatenting of life paves the way for global application biotechnologyThe strongest argument to make governments accept Genetically Engneered food has been that it will provide crops that increase food production. This appears to be a scientifically unsubstantiated myth. A recent scientific report even shows that world hunger is not at all due to food scarcity but is caused by increasing poverty in developing countries (). In addition it has not yet been proven that any really valuable crop that would increase food productivity can be developed with gene technology (see article on difficulites with GE think "it will destroy the diversity, the local knowledge and the sustainable agricultural systems that our farmers have developed for millennia and that it will thus undermine our capacity to feed ourselves." In addition, global agriculture based on biotechnology is expected to cause important socioeconomic changes wich increased poverty as such farming requires good finances. Thereby and by destroying traditions of sustainable agriculture, it might even lead to increased world hunger (see Globalization of Biotechnological Agriculture and the world hunger problemThe Vancouver Statement On the Globalization and Industrialization of Agriculture: "Reducing farming to a monocultural, synthetic, transnational corporate business 



Document Number: 8759
industry have been handed carte blanche to do as they please for maximum profitability, with the regulatory body acting to allay legitimate public fears and opposition." Biology Department, Open University, Milton Keynes, UK. (Excerpt from Fatal Flaws in Food Safety Assessment)"Over the last fifteen years, I and other scientists have put the FDA on notice about the potential dangers of genetically engineered foods. Instead of responsible regulation we have seen bureaucratic bungling and obfuscation that have left public health and the environment at risk"professor at the University of Minnesota and an internationally recognized biosafety expert. Statement in conjunction with a Lawsuit Challenging FDA Policy on Genetically Engineered Foods at 27 May 1998. See also professor Regal's website: http://biosci.umn.edu/~pregal/phil.htmlA summary of the most important points in this section:That genetically engineered foods are approved at all is a result of the serious negligence, distortion and sometimes even suppression of evidence that took place when the rules were made. This may surprise you but there is objective evidence behind this statement. (Our principle is not to publish any allegations which cannot be backed up.) The rules for safety assessments of GE foods were designed with the purpose of making rapid approval possible. Weighty 



Document Number: 6561
achieve effective productivity at large scale through the use of technological means including machines, chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides. Indeed, it appeared more effective in the short run, but now increasing numbers of complications are reported. The ground water in regions where industrial agriculture has become increasingly contaminated by the toxic chemicals. In some parts of the USA the drinking water contamination of pesticides is so high that children before the age of 10 have been exposed to the maxium allowable "life dose" of such chemicals. Thousands of farm workers contract chronic health problems or die from the chemicals every year. The residues of these chemicals in the food may cause cancer and other health problems. Recent research indicates that the combination of different chemicals may enhanced the harmful effect. One study indicates that when two pesticides were combined, their harmful effect was ten times stronger than the effect of each one of them if used separately. As chemicals are mostly combined in farming, this means that the present "safe" levels in food may be considerably too high. In addition, not infrequently, the concentrations of these chemicals in food are above present "safe" levels. The nitrogen and phoshpate used in 



Document Number: 9003
are harmful?How dangerous is it to eat GE foods?What GE foods are on the market? (now found on a separate page) having taken a position against GE food? we claim to be impartial only about the scientific evidence concerning GE foods.And we find that an impartial evaluation strongly speaks against the use of genetic engineering of foods. you can very well take a standpoint against something after an evaluation of facts. We have found that there is not enough knowledge to warrant safe release of GE organisms and safe use of GE foods, see "Is there sufficient scientific knowledge..." we don't claim to be impartial in the question whether it is OK to market products that may threaten the health of people and the environment. In this respect we are strongly partial in favor of safeguarding the health of people and the safety of the environment. We are strictly against any irresponsible commercial application of new technologies. How can PSRAST claim to be impartial not mentioning possible benefits of GE foods? are of little or questionable benefit as you find in "Traits introduced into foods by genetic engineering". We find potential benefits of irrelevant as long as it has not 



Document Number: 6065
their hazardous products all over the world. This must be stopped before irreparable environmental damage or another "" kind of disaster occurs. Already so much of GE genes have been dispersed that even organic foods in some areas have become polluted by GE genes. Recently (June 2007) a consensus was reached among leading scientists that definitely destroyed the one-gene-one-trait concept which is the very fundament of genetic engineering, see This confirms the correctness our conclusions from 1998 and underscores the importance of withdrawal of GE foods from the market and stoppping the release of all kinds of GE organisms into the environment. Your contributions as suggested below would be very valuable. Alone, you cannot do very much. Only by cooperating all over the world can we be successful. Therefore it is good to become organized. Hereby we invite you to become member of PSRAST. Membership is open to everybody, not only scientists and physicians. You will find the link to our membership registration at the bottom of every page, but please read on first. Sponsor PSRAST - even a few dollars make a differenceBecause of the huge number of visitors to our site (over 312.000 people during 2006), it is 



Document Number: 2166
. Engdahl has addressed this issue but the crop seed is one of the many "Seeds of Destruction" in this book. Engdahl carefully documents how the intellectual foundations of 'eugenics,' mass culling of the sick, coloured, and otherwise disposable races, were actually first established, and even legally approved, in the United States. Eugenics research was financially supported by the Rockefeller and other elite families and first tested on Jews under Nazi Germany. It is purely by chance that world's poorest nations also happen to be best endowed with natural resources. These regions are also the ones with growing population. The fear among European ruling families, increasingly, integrating with economic and military might of the United States, was that if the poor nations became developed, the abundant natural resources, especially oil, gas, and strategic minerals and metals, may become scarcer for the white population. That situation was unacceptable to the white ruling elite. The central question that dominated the minds of the ruling clique was population reduction in resource rich countries but the question was how to engineer mass culling all over the world without generating powerful backlash as it was bound to happen. When the US oil reserves peaked in 



Document Number: 9882
from needing more GM foods, there are urgent reasons why we need to ban them altogether. 1. GM foods won’t solve the food crisis A 2008 World Bank report concluded that increased biofuel production is the major cause of the increase in food prices.[1] Biofuels are crops grown for fuel rather than food. GM giant Monsanto has been at the heart of the lobbying for biofuels — while profiting enormously from the resulting food crisis and using it as a PR opportunity to promote GM foods! “The climate crisis was used to boost biofuels, helping to create the food crisis; and now the food crisis is being used to revive the fortunes of the GM industry.” — Daniel Howden, Africa correspondent, The Independent (UK)[2] “The cynic in me thinks that they’re just using the current food crisis and the fuel crisis as a springboard to push GM crops back on to the public agenda. I understand why they’re doing it, but the danger is that if they’re making these claims about GM crops solving the problem of drought or feeding the world, that’s bullshit.” – Prof Denis Murphy, head of biotechnology, University of Glamorgan, Wales[3] 2. GM crops do not 



Document Number: 8855
addressed this issue but the crop seed is one of the many "Seeds of Destruction" in this book. Engdahl carefully documents how the intellectual foundations of 'eugenics,' mass culling of the sick, coloured, and otherwise disposable races, were actually first established, and even legally approved, in the United States. Eugenics research was financially supported by the Rockefeller and other elite families and first tested on Jews under Nazi Germany. It is purely by chance that world's poorest nations also happen to be best endowed with natural resources. These regions are also the ones with growing population. The fear among European ruling families, increasingly, integrating with economic and military might of the United States, was that if the poor nations became developed, the abundant natural resources, especially oil, gas, and strategic minerals and metals, may become scarcer for the white population. That situation was unacceptable to the white ruling elite. The central question that dominated the minds of the ruling clique was population reduction in resource rich countries but the question was how to engineer mass culling all over the world without generating powerful backlash as it was bound to happen. When the US oil reserves peaked in 1972 and it 



Document Number: 6342
organisms into the environment, according to researchers at the Ecological Society of America. These cautionary words were issued as part of an official statement on GMOs which the Society released today in Washington, DC. "It's important to recognize that some GMOs can possess genuinely new characteristics that may require much greater scrutiny in terms of scientific research than organisms produced by traditional techniques of plant and animal breeding. In particular, we really need more peer-reviewed research on the potential environmental effects of GMOs," says Diana Wall. Wall, who is the Director of the Natural Resource Ecology Laboratory at Colorado State University, served as Chair of the ad hoc committee which developed the GMO statement approved by the Society's Governing Board. The Ecological Society of America is a professional, scientific society founded in 1915. ESA members are leaders in ecological research and education. They hail from academia, government agencies, industry, and non-profit organizations and work to provide the ecological knowledge needed to contribute to environmental problem solving across the globe. The Society is perhaps best known for publishing three scientific, peer-reviewed research journals: Ecology, Ecological Applications, and Ecological Monographs. Cases of particular concern which were cited in the ESA statement include 



Document Number: 6852
has been proven beyond any reasonable doubt that this is wrong through research organized by the United States National Human Genome Research InstituteGenes are not carriers of single traitsAn exhaustive four-year effort by 35 groups of scientists from all over the world has resulted in the conclusion that it is proven beyond any doubt that genes work in a different way than believed when gene technology was conceived in 1973. The genes work in networks where the effect of every gene is decided by the interaction with many other genes as well with its environment. So the one-gene-one-trait concept, the very basis of gene technology, is fundamentally wrong Gene technology is inherently unpredictable and therefore unsafeThe conclusion that genes work in networks that decide the behaviour of genes shatters the very basis of every risk assessment of all kinds of commercial biotechnology products including genetically engineered foods. The risk assessment policies have been based on the assumption that insertion of gene means just an addition of a specific trait and nothing else. But the new understanding means that completely unpredictable effects can result from the insertion of a gene. This possibility has not been considered in present risk assessments. See 



Document Number: 2049
either Genetic Engineering (GE) or Genetic Modification (GM); they are one and the same. But haven't growers been grafting trees, breeding animals, and hybridizing seeds for years? Genetic engineering is completely different from traditional breeding and carries unique risks. In traditional breeding it is possible to mate a pig with another pig to get a new variety, but is not possible to mate a pig with a potato or a mouse. Even when species that may seem to be closely related do succeed in breeding, the offspring are usually infertile‚Äîa horse, for example, can mate with a donkey, but the offspring (a mule) is sterile. With genetic engineering, scientists can breach species barriers set up by nature. For example, they have spliced fish genes into tomatoes. The results are plants (or animals) with traits that would be virtually impossible to obtain with natural processes, such as crossbreeding or grafting. What combinations have been tried? It is now possible for plants to be engineered with genes taken from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. Scientists have worked on some interesting combinations: Spider genes were inserted into goat DNA, in hopes that the goat milk would contain spider web protein for 



Document Number: 111
animals or even humans. Because this involves the transfer of genes, GMOs are also known as ‚Äútransgenic‚Äù organisms. This process may be called either Genetic Engineering (GE) or Genetic Modification (GM); they are one and the same. What is a gene? Every plant and animal is made of cells, each of which has a center called a nucleus. Inside every nucleus there are strings of DNA, half of which is normally inherited from the mother and half from the father. Short sequences of DNA are called genes. These genes operate in complex networks that are finely regulated to enable the processes of living organisms to happen in the right place and at the right time. How is genetic engineering done? Because living organisms have natural barriers to protect themselves against the introduction of DNA from a different species, genetic engineers must force the DNA from one organism into another. Their methods include: Using viruses or bacteria to "infect" animal or plant cells with the new DNA. Coating DNA onto tiny metal pellets, and firing it with a special gun into the cells. Injecting the new DNA into fertilized eggs with a very fine needle. Using electric shocks to create holes 



Document Number: 8782
review the impact of corporate agribusiness on small farmers. But then, with time for only one more question, I was handed the microphone. "Mr. Secretary, may I ask a tough question on GMOs?" He said yes. "The American Academy of Environmental Medicine this year said that genetically modified foods, according to animal studies, are causally linked to accelerated aging, dysfunctional immune regulation, organ damage, gastrointestinal distress, and immune system damage. A study came out by the Union of Concerned Scientists confirming what we all know, that genetically modified crops, on average, reduce yield. A USDA report from 2006 showed that farmers don't actually increase income from GMOs, but many actually lose income. And for the last several years, the United States has been forced to spend $3-$5 billion per year to prop up the prices of the GM crops no one wants. "When you were appointed Secretary of Agriculture, many of our mutual friends‚ÄîI live in Iowa and was proud to have you as our governor‚Äîassured me that you have an open mind and are very reasonable and forward thinking. And so I was very excited that you had taken this position as Secretary of Agriculture. And I'm wondering, have 



Document Number: 3582
advise all patients to avoid GM foods.[1] Starting in 1996, Americans have been eating genetically modified (GM) ingredients in most processed foods. Why isn't the FDA protecting us? In 1992, the Food and Drug Administration claimed they had no information showing that GM foods were substantially different from conventionally grown foods. Therefore they are safe to eat, and absolutely no safety studies were required. But internal memos made public by a lawsuit[2] reveal that their position was staged by political appointees who were under orders from the White House to promote GMOs. In addition, the FDA official in charge of creating this policy was Michael Taylor, the former attorney for Monsanto, the largest biotech company, and later their vice president. In reality, FDA scientists had repeatedly warned that GM foods can create unpredictable, hard-to-detect side effects, including allergies, toxins, new diseases, and nutritional problems. They urged long-term safety studies, but were ignored. Today, the same biotech companies who have been found guilty of hiding toxic effects of their chemical products are in charge of determining whether their GM foods are safe. Industry-funded GMO safety studies are too superficial to find most of the potential dangers, and their voluntary consultations with 



Document Number: 8555
diseases Young, fast-developing bodies are influenced most Children's bodies develop at a fast pace and are more likely to be influenced and show the effects of genetically modified (GM) foods. That is why independent scientists used young adolescent rats in their GM feeding studies. The rats showed significant health damage after only 10 days, including damaged immune systems and digestive function, smaller brains, livers, and testicles, partial atrophy of the liver, and potentially pre-cancerous cell growth in the intestines. Children are more susceptible to allergies Children are three to four times more prone to allergies than adults. Infants below two years old are at greatest risk-they have the highest incidence of reactions, especially to new allergens encountered in the diet. Even tiny amounts of allergens can sometimes cause reactions in children. Breast fed infants can be exposed via the mother's diet, and fetuses may possibly be exposed in the womb. Michael Meacher, the former minister of the environment for the UK, said, "Any baby food containing GM products could lead to a dramatic rise in allergies." GM corn is particularly problematic for children, as they generally eat a higher percentage of corn in their diet. Further, allergic children often rely 



Document Number: 8985
approval of rBGH in our country is a story of fired whistleblowers, manipulated research, and a corporate takeover of the US Food and Drug Administration. US dairies, responding to the health concerns of consumers by not injecting their herds, now battle for their right to label their milk as rBGH-free. For those familiar with the history of this controversial drug, and Monsanto, this is no surprise. Monsanto‚Äôs past is plagued with toxic disasters, lawsuits and cover-ups. Your Milk on Drugs - Just Say No! (8:54 min) Also available for Purchase The Health Hazards in Milk from Cows Injected with rBGH Milk from rBGH-treated cows has much higher levels of IGF-1, a hormone considered to be a high risk factor for breast, prostate, colon, lung, and other cancers. IGF-1 levels in milk from treated cows with rBGH can be up to 10 times higher. Studies suggest that pre-menopausal women below 50 years old with high levels of IGF-1 are seven times more likely to develop breast cancer. Men are four times more likely to develop prostate cancer. IGF-1 is implicated in lung and colon cancer. Milk from rBGH-treated cows with its heightened IGF-1 levels also likely increases the rate of fraternal 



Document Number: 58
of trees to produce commercial benefits such as more rapid growth. There are experiments with ‚Äúpharma-crops,‚Äù trying to get plants to ‚Äúgrow‚Äù medicines or ingredients for medicines. Crosspollination Pollen from GM crops and trees can contaminate nearby crops and wild plants of the same type, except for soy, which does not cross-pollinate. In fact, virtually all heritage varieties of corn in Mexico (the origin of all corn) have been found to have some contamination. Canola and cotton also cross-pollinate. GM sugar beets are a member of the chard family and therefore have even more potential targets for contamination through crosspollination. No one knows what might happen if DNA containing pharmaceutical properties are spread to wild plants. Toxicity Studies have shown that pesticide-producing crops contaminate nearby streams, possibly affecting aquatic life. The bt toxin produced by these GM crops are far stronger than any found in nature, and are produced throughout the plant. They may harm beneficial insects. And, it has been found that previously insignificant insects which are not targeted by the GM varieties develop into pests. Then pesticide spraying resumes, on top of the potential build-up of the extra strong bt toxin in the soil. This has occurred in 



Document Number: 7668
often by advocates of genetically modified (GM) food. The words on the page are made up of the four letters, or molecules, of the genetic code, which line up in ‚Äúbase pairs‚Äù along the DNA. The inserted page represents a gene, whose code produces one or more proteins. The book is made up of chapters, which represent chromosomes‚Äîlarge sections of DNA. The analogy makes the process of genetic engineering appear to be as simple and precise as inserting a new page. A groundbreaking report, however, shreds the book analogy. Genome Scrambling ‚Äì Myth or Reality?, written by three scientists at the UK-based Econexus, reveals that the process of genetic engineering results in widespread mutations‚Äîwithin the inserted gene, near its insertion, and in hundreds or thousands of locations throughout the genome‚Äîand that these are overlooked by many scientists and regulators. [1] The report is an extensive review of research that overturns the central arguments by biotech advocates‚Äîthat the technology is precise, predictable, and safe, and that current studies are adequate. On the contrary, it demonstrates that GM crops represent a significant gamble to public health and the environment (see www.econexus.info). Gene Insertion Methods Create Mutations, Fragments, and Multiple Copies There are 



Document Number: 4387
risks.‚Äù[1] They called for a moratorium on GM foods, long-term independent studies, and labeling. AAEM‚Äôs position paper stated, ‚ÄúSeveral animal studies indicate serious health risks associated with GM food,‚Äù including infertility, immune problems, accelerated aging, insulin regulation, and changes in major organs and the gastrointestinal system. They conclude, ‚ÄúThere is more than a casual association between GM foods and adverse health effects. There is causation,‚Äù as defined by recognized scientific criteria. ‚ÄúThe strength of association and consistency between GM foods and disease is confirmed in several animal studies.‚Äù More and more doctors are already prescribing GM-free diets. Dr. Amy Dean, a Michigan internal medicine specialist, and board member of AAEM says, ‚ÄúI strongly recommend patients eat strictly non-genetically modified foods.‚Äù Ohio allergist Dr. John Boyles says ‚ÄúI used to test for soy allergies all the time, but now that soy is genetically engineered, it is so dangerous that I tell people never to eat it.‚Äù Dr. Jennifer Armstrong, President of AAEM, says, ‚ÄúPhysicians are probably seeing the effects in their patients, but need to know how to ask the right questions.‚Äù World renowned biologist Pushpa M. Bhargava goes one step further. After reviewing more than 600 scientific journals, he concludes 



Document Number: 7545
been waiting for.‚Ä¶The case presented is absolutely a smoking shotgun that should stop in its tracks any dabbling with GM foods, whether by individual families, food companies, or indeed nations.‚Äù Best-selling author John Robbins says, ‚ÄúGenetic Roulette is dynamite. It totally explodes the complacency and apathy that has been allowing genetically engineered foods to creep into our food supply.‚Äù And GMO experts Arpad Pusztai and Susan Bardocz write, ‚ÄúJeffrey Smith‚Äôs Genetic Roulette destroys the myth that genetically modified organisms are safe and will give sleepless nights to uncritical supporters of GMOs.‚Ä¶It is a real treasure and the most important GMO source book for policy makers, scientists, and the public.‚Äù According to Molecules of Emotion author Candace Pert, PhD, Genetic Roulette‚Äôs author ‚ÄúJeffrey Smith is the leading world expert in the understanding and communication of the health issues surrounding genetically modified foods.‚Äù Indeed, his first book Seeds of Deception became the #1 rated and best-selling book on GMOs. Seeds made a huge impact and is credited with influencing legislation and changing the global debate on the subject. Now, in Genetic Roulette, Smith has answered the human health risk question as he calls for an immediate ban on GM product by consumers 



Document Number: 8212
consistently described these newly introduced gene-spliced foods as cause for concern. In addition to their potential to produce hard-to-detect allergies and nutritional problems, the scientists said that ‚ÄúThe possibility of unexpected, accidental changes in genetically engineered plants‚Äù might produce ‚Äúunexpected high concentrations of plant toxicants.‚Äù[1] GM crops, they said, might have ‚ÄúIncreased levels of known naturally occurring toxins,‚Ä¶appearance of new, not previously identified‚Äù toxins, and an increased tendency to gather ‚Äútoxic substances from the environment‚Äù such as ‚Äúpesticides or heavy metals.‚Äù They recommended testing every GM food ‚Äúbefore it enters the marketplace.‚Äù[2] But the FDA was under orders from the first Bush White House to promote the biotechnology industry, and the political appointee in charge of agency policy was Monsanto‚Äôs former attorney‚Äîlater their vice president. The FDA policy ignored the scientists‚Äô warnings and allowed GM food crops onto the market without any required safety studies. From the few safety tests that have been conducted, the results are disturbing‚Äîlab animals fed GM diets show damage to virtually every system studied. Reports from farmers are even less encouraging‚Äîthousands of sick, sterile and dead animals are traced to GM feed.[3] GM Diet Shows Toxic Reactions in Digestive Tract The very first crop submitted 



Document Number: 8823
been artificially inserted to the DNA of soy, corn, cottonseed and canola plants. These unlabeled genetically modified (GM) foods carry a risk of triggering life-threatening allergic reactions, and evidence collected over the past decade now suggests that they are contributing to higher allergy rates. Food Safety Tests Are Inadequate To Protect Public Health Scientists have long known that GM crops might cause allergies. But there are no tests to prove in advance that a GM crop is safe.[2] That‚Äôs because people aren‚Äôt usually allergic to a food until they have eaten it several times. ‚ÄúThe only definitive test for allergies,‚Äù according to former FDA microbiologist Louis Pribyl, ‚Äúis human consumption by affected peoples, which can have ethical considerations.‚Äù[3] And it is the ethical considerations of feeding unlabeled, high-risk GM crops to unknowing consumers that has many people up in arms. The UK is one of the few countries that conducts a yearly evaluation of food allergies. In March 1999, researchers at the York Laboratory were alarmed to discover that reactions to soy had skyrocketed by 50% over the previous year. Genetically modified soy had recently entered the UK from US imports and the soy used in the study was largely 



Document Number: 4491
a euphemism for contains its own built-in pesticide. When bugs take a bite of the GM plant, the toxin splits open their stomach and kills them. The idea that we consume that same toxic pesticide in every bite is hardly appetizing. But the biotech companies and the Environmental Protection Agency‚Äîwhich regulates plant produced pesticides‚Äîtell us not to worry. They contend that the pesticide called Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) is produced naturally from a soil bacterium and has a history of safe use. Organic farmers, for example, have used solutions containing the natural bacteria for years as a method of insect control. Genetic engineers simply remove the gene that produces the Bt in bacteria and then insert it into the DNA of corn and cotton plants, so that the plant does the work, not the farmer. Moreover, they say that Bt-toxin is quickly destroyed in our stomach; and even if it survived, since humans and other mammals have no receptors for the toxin, it would not interact with us in any case. These arguments, however, are just that‚Äîunsupported assumptions. Research tells a different story. Bt Spray Is Dangerous To Humans When natural Bt was sprayed over areas around Vancouver and Washington State 



Document Number: 7984
dollar industry. Irina Ermakova, a leading scientist at the Institute of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS), added GM soy flour (5-7 grams) to the diet of female rats. Other females were fed non-GM soy or no soy at all. The experimental diet began two weeks before the rats conceived and continued through pregnancy and nursing. Ermakova‚Äôs first surprise came when her pregnant rats started giving birth. Some pups from GM-fed mothers were quite a bit smaller. After 2 weeks, 36% of them weighed less than 20 grams compared to about 6% from the other groups (see photo below). Photo of two rats from the Russian study, showing stunted growth‚Äî the larger rat, 19 days old, is from the control group; the smaller rat, 20 days old, is from the "GM soy" group. But the real shock came when the rats started dying. Within three weeks, 25 of the 45 (55.6%) rats from the GM soy group died compared to only 3 of 33 (9%) from the non-GM soy group and 3 of 44 (6.8%) from the non-soy controls. Ermakova preserved several major organs from the mother rats and offspring, drew up designs for 



Document Number: 1728
significant changes in their uterus and reproductive cycle, compared to rats fed organic soy or those raised without soy. Published in The Anatomical Record in 2009, this finding adds to the mounting body of evidence suggesting that GM foods contribute to reproductive disorders (see summary at end). Unlike women whose menstrual cycle starts automatically at puberty, female rats need to be "inspired." Their (estrous) cycle conveniently kicks in only after being introduced to male rats. Since no males were present in this study, the females fed organic soy or no soy were appropriately untriggered (diestrus). For some odd reason, however, those fed GM soy appeared to have their ovulation cycle in full gear. Although the researchers did not perform a check on the estrous cycle directly, their microscopic analysis of ovaries and uterus tissue showed that the hormone-induced changes (i.e. early ovulation and formation of corpus luteum) were well underway. In addition, the lining of the uterus (endometriim) had more cells than normal and the glands were dilated. In simpler terms, according to senior UK pathologist Stanley Ewen, something in the GM soy diet was "wrecking the ovary and endometrium" of the rats. Hormonal imbalance and disease risk Dr. Ewen 



Document Number: 1929
had been inserted with a gene from kidney beans, which creates a protein that acts as a pesticide. When this protein is produced naturally in beans, it does not elicit a response from mice. When produced in the GM peas, however, it did cause a reaction. Using sensitive testing methods, scientists discovered subtle differences between the bean and the GM proteins‚Äîthe added sugar chains were slightly different. They speculate that this difference caused the immune reactions. Based on the results of the study, the Australian developers abandoned their 10-year, $2 million project. This study reveals serious and potentially deadly flaws in the regulations and assessments used to approve GM foods. GM crops on the market, like corn and soybeans, were never tested for immune responses using animals and never subjected to a similar analysis of their proteins. Thus, the transgenic proteins in GM foods may have subtle undetected differences that are causing health problems. It is sobering to note that if the GM peas were tested with only the methods used on soy and corn, it likely would have been approved as well. The approvals of genetically modified (GM) food are largely based on four pillars. The first is the 



Document Number: 372
detail the research done on GM peas. December 21, 2005 Dear TJ, Thank you for taking the time to discuss with me important issues related to the genetically modified peas that you have worked on for about 10 years. I deeply appreciate your decision to test the peas on mice for immune responses. Since the peas did elicit a response and therefore may cause allergic reactions in humans as well, your decision to stop the development of the peas was certainly a good one. If those peas had been widely commercialized and did cause allergies, they might have killed people. (Specifically, you mentioned that more than 60 percent of the Australian pea exports are consumed in India. Clearly if Indians developed anaphylactic shock from an allergic reaction to the peas, emergency response would not be available in many cases. Furthermore, without labels identifying the peas as different, it would be difficult to even identify the GM peas as the cause of allergic reactions.) Your recently published study showed that natural beans and GM peas produced the same protein, but it had subtle differences in the way sugar chains were attached. You said you believe that this difference in sugar chains, 



Document Number: 5774
citizens. Nutritional data missing: Nutrition studies require measurement and disclosure of the nutritional composition of the feed and the demonstration that it remains stable for the duration of the 90-day experiment. This assurance backed up by actual chemical analysis is not provided. Methodology missing: The study fails to describe most of the methods used in the study. When methods cannot be evaluated or repeated, they remain suspect. Older animals masked results: Nutritional studies use young, fast-growing animals, which are sensitive to toxic and nutritional effects. The study uses a mix of younger and more mature animals, which can mask serious problems. Bizarre and conflicting animal weights: The starting rat weights given at two different places in the study were different. Thus, for male rats at the beginning of the report it was given as between 198.4 to 259.8 g while in Appendix 2, the values were 143 to 186 g. (similar differences for female rats). No high-class journal would tolerate such imprecision. Normally differences in starting weight should not be more than mean weight (typically about 80 g) 2%. Using such a wide range can make it impossible to find significant differences in animal weights at the end of the 



Document Number: 5692
fail to reveal, however, that after you eat the GM corn, some inactive herbicide may become reactivated inside your gut and cause a toxic reaction. In addition, a gene that was inserted into the corn might transfer into the DNA of your gut bacteria, producing long-term effects. These are just a couple of the many potential side-effects of GM crops that critics say put the public at risk. Herbicide tolerance (HT) is one of two basic traits common to nearly all GM crops. About 71% of the crops are engineered to resist herbicide, including Liberty (glufosinate ammonium) and Roundup[3] (glyphosate). About 18% produce their own pesticide. And 11% do both. The four major GM crops are soy, corn, cotton and canola, all of which have approved Liberty- and Roundup-tolerant varieties. Herbicide tolerant (HT) crops are a particularly big money-maker for biotech companies, because when farmers buy HT seeds, they are required to purchase the companies‚Äô brand of herbicide as well. In addition, HT crops dramatically increase the use of herbicide,[4] which further contributes to the companies‚Äô bottom line. There are no required safety tests for HT crops in the US‚Äîif the biotech companies declare them fit for human consumption, the 



Document Number: 6998
to GM varieties worldwide, but occupy a much bigger portion in biotech promotional literature. That‚Äôs because engineering a crop to resist disease sounds more appealing than inserting a gene to make a crop produce its own pesticide or withstand herbicide‚Äîthe two traits that make up the other 99 percent of today‚Äôs GM world. There are three commercialized virus-resistant GM varieties: zucchini, crookneck squash and the only commercialized GM fruit, papaya. GM papaya grows solely in Hawaii and was introduced in 1998 to protect the crop from the devastating ring-spot virus. But according to a May 2006 report by Greenpeace, the GM papaya turned out to be ‚Äúmore devastating than the virus. ‚ÄùUpon introduction, the selling price for the papaya crashed from $1.23 per kilo to $0.89, after ‚Äútraditional buyers of Hawaiian papayas, such as Japan and Canada, rejected [it].‚Äù Now, if Hawaiian papaya growers want to sell to Japan, they have to pay extra for segregating and testing their papayas to make sure they are non-GM. The Japanese market shrunk from $10.3 million in 1998 to $4.6 million in 2005. Although Canada started accepting GM papayas in 2003, the price didn‚Äôt recover. In the 2004 and 2005 growing seasons, the 



Document Number: 3669
one of the most asinine and dangerous ever made by our government? What‚Äôs it going to take for them to actually start protecting public health? Frankenfish can promote disease The FDA is reviewing data submitted by AquaBounty, the company that spliced a growth hormone gene into Atlantic salmon, forcing it to grow up to five times faster, and reach market size in about 18 months instead of 3 years. But according to the evidence, their buff salmon might have higher levels of a cancer promoting hormone IGF-1, more antibiotics, and more of a potentially life-threatening allergen(s). The FDA failed to learn their lesson with their idiotic approval of genetically engineered bovine growth hormone. It also has higher levels of IGF-1 and more antibiotics. Now it‚Äôs condemned by the American Public Health Association and the American Nurses Association, banned in most other countries, and has been banished by most US dairies. Even Wal-Mart won‚Äôt allow the stuff into their milk. The GE soy and corn on the market, which the FDA continues to pretend is just the same as the natural stuff, also has higher levels of allergens, and has been linked to numerous disorders. Now the American Academy of Environmental 



Document Number: 6843
organisms (GMOs) cause or worsen the many diseases that are on the rise since gene-spliced foods were introduced in 1996. Like the American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM) earlier this year, the LIA Foundation says there is more than enough evidence of harm in GM animal feeding studies for them to "urge doctors to prescribe non-GMO diets" and for "individuals, especially those with autism, Lyme disease, and associated conditions, to avoid" GM foods. Dr. Jannelle Love, founder of the Autism Relief Foundation, is quoted in Kimberly Wilcox's excellent article: "It is known that children on the Autistic Spectrum suffer from fragile immune systems, significant digestive and brain inflammation, and the environmental toxin overload. Putting foreign entities such as GMO foods into such a fragile child may indeed cause further deterioration and perhaps block the delicate biochemical pathways needed for appropriate functioning and possible recovery." The LIA Foundation calls for physicians and patient advocacy groups to explain to patients the role that GM foods may play in disease and to distribute non-GMO educational materials, including the Non-GMO Shopping Guide, which makes it easier to find brands without GM ingredients. (See www.nonGMOGuide.com). They also called for a moratorium on all GM foods 



Document Number: 9279
bright, ambitious, handsome and idealistic‚Äîthe perfect candidate to project the company‚Äôs ‚ÄúSave the world through genetic engineering‚Äù image. It was that image, in fact, that convinced Kirk to take the job in 1996. ‚ÄúWhen I was contacted by the headhunter from Monsanto, I began to study the company, namely the work of their CEO, Robert Shapiro.‚Äù Kirk was thoroughly impressed with Shapiro‚Äôs promise of a golden future through genetically modified (GM) crops. ‚ÄúHe described how we would reduce the in-process waste from manufacturing, turn our fields into factories and produce anything from lifesaving drugs to insect-resistant plants. It was fascinating to me.‚Äù Kirk thought, ‚ÄúHere we go. I can do something to help the world and make it a better place.‚Äù He left his job and accepted a position at Monsanto, rising quickly to become the facilitator for GM cotton sales in California and Arizona. He would often repeat Shapiro‚Äôs vision to customers, researchers, even fellow employees. After about three months, he visited Monsanto‚Äôs St. Louis headquarters for the first time for new employee training. There too, he took the opportunity to let his colleagues know how enthusiastic he was about Monsanto‚Äôs technology that was going to reduce waste, decrease 



Document Number: 9387
in the United States in the 1980s. Much of the research for the chapter came from the work of investigator William Crist. The book cited Crist‚Äôs report, which was expected to have been posted on a website well in advance of my book‚Äôs publication. Unfortunately, Crist was unable to update his report at that time. It is now available at www.seedsofdeception.com/Public/L-tryptophan/index.cfm and provides important new evidence, including ways in which the U.S. government apparently hid information in order to protect the biotech industry. In October, 1989, 44-year old Kathy Lorio arrived in the medical office of Dr. Phil Hertzman in Los Alamos, New Mexico. Lorio, who had been healthy and active, was suddenly struck with severe pain and a host of debilitating symptoms. Blood tests revealed that her eosinophil count had skyrocketed. The normal concentration of this white blood cell is about 10 per CC. Allergies or asthma can make it rise to 500. Lorio‚Äôs was over 10,000. In a coincidence that was destined to save lives, Hertzman referred her to Santa Fe rheumatologist James Mayer, who happened to have recently seen another patient, Bonnie Bishop, with similar symptoms. Bishop was in severe pain, her arms and legs were filled 



Document Number: 4779
their genetically modified (GM) cotton approved.[1] In India, one official tampered with the report on Bt cotton to increase the yield figures to favor Monsanto.[2] In Mexico, a senior government official allegedly threatened a University of California professor, implying ‚ÄúWe know where your children go to school,‚Äù trying to get him not to publish incriminating evidence that would delay GM approvals.[3] While most industry manipulation and political collusion is more subtle, none was more significant than that found at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA‚Äôs ‚Äúnon-regulation‚Äù of GM foods Genetically modified crops are the result of a technology developed in the 1970s that allow genes from one species to be forced into the DNA of unrelated species. The inserted genes produce proteins that confer traits in the new plant, such as herbicide tolerance or pesticide production. The process of creating the GM crop can produce all sorts of side effects, and the plants contain proteins that have never before been in the food supply. In the US, new types of food substances are normally classified as food additives, which must undergo extensive testing, including long-term animal feeding studies.[4] If approved, the label of food products containing the 



Document Number: 5248
modified (GM) corn developed extensive health effects in the blood, kidneys and liver and that humans eating the corn might be at risk. The 1,139 page research paper on Monsanto‚Äôs ‚ÄúMon 863‚Äù variety also revealed that European regulators accepted the company‚Äôs assurances that their corn is safe, in spite of the unscientific and contradictory rationale that was used to dismiss significant problems. In addition, the study is so full of flaws and omissions, critics say it wouldn‚Äôt qualify for publication in most journals and yet it is the primary document used to evaluate the health impacts. Mon 863 is genetically engineered to produce its own pesticide, a toxin called Bacillus thuringiensis or Bt, designed to attack a corn pest called the corn rootworm. Rats fed Mon 863 developed several reactions, including those typically found with allergies (increased basophils), in response to infections, toxins and various diseases including cancer (increased lymphocytes and white blood cells), and in the presence of anemia (decreased reticulocyte count) and blood pressure problems (decreased kidney weights). There were also increased blood sugar levels, kidney inflammation, liver and kidney lesions, and other changes. According to top research biologist Arpad Pusztai, who was commissioned by the German government 



Document Number: 7387
between GM corn and non-GM corn, most purchased the GM variety. This finding flew in the face of worldwide consumer resistance to GM foods, which had shut markets in Europe, Japan, and elsewhere. It also challenged studies that showed that the more information on genetically modified organisms (GMOs) consumers have, the less they trust them.[2] The study, which was funded by the biotech-industry front group, Council for Biotechnology Information and the industry‚Äôs trade association, the Crop Protection Institute of Canada (now Croplife Canada), was given the Journal‚Äôs prestigious Award for Excellence for the Most Outstanding Paper of 2004 and has been cited often by biotech advocates. Stuart Laidlaw, a reporter from Canada‚Äôs Toronto Star, visited the farm store several times during the study and described the scenario in his book Secret Ingredients. Far from offering unbiased choices, key elements appeared rigged to favor GM corn purchases. The consumer education fact sheets were entirely pro-GMO, and Doug Powell, the lead researcher, enthusiastically demonstrated to Laidlaw how he could convince shoppers to buy the GM varieties. He confronted a farmer who had already purchased non-GM corn. After pitching his case for GMOs, Powell proudly had the farmer tell Laidlaw that he had 



Document Number: 8185
director of the Rowett Institute in Aberdeen Scotland, Europe‚Äôs leading nutritional research facility. He told the Pusztais, both senior scientists there, that the British agriculture minister was meeting with European ministers in Brussels to vote on genetically modified (GM) foods. The documents were submissions from biotech companies that had sought approval of their GM soy, corn, and tomatoes. The minister wanted a scientific opinion on them. Arpad Pusztai looked at the stack‚Äînearly 700 pages‚Äîthen back at James. He was confident that his director and the other eleven scientists on the committee that approves GM foods for the UK were far too busy to actually read these studies. The Pusztais, however, had been working for more than two years on a UK government grant, leading a 20-member research team to design the ideal testing protocol for evaluating GM foods. They were also conducting safety tests on a new variety of GM potatoes intended for commercialization. The Pusztais were therefore among the most qualified scientists in the world to evaluate the papers James had just given them. Arpad asked how much time they had. ‚ÄúTwo and a half hours,‚Äù said James. They quickly got to work, focusing on the design and the 



Document Number: 4414
day were starving to death, but not because of underproduction of crops. It‚Äôs simply through lack of access. Independent scientific studies raised serious alarm bells over the safety of GM foods over a decade ago. But while this made front-page headlines in European newspapers, the North American mainstream media were conspiratorially silent. Biotech companies stand to make billions from their seed patents. Governments and supreme courts have sanctioned the patenting of life itself. The planet‚Äôs food supply is becoming increasingly dominated by fewer and fewer players. If the biotech industry‚Äôs stated intention of feeding the world is misguided or even misdirecting, is there another political agenda behind GM food? Have we been mis-sold? Were we even given a choice in the first place? Jeffrey M. Smith, international bestselling author of Seeds of Deception and Genetic Roulette: The Documented Health Risks of Genetically Engineered Foods, reveals the shocking truth behind GM foods and the huge effort by governments and Biotech corporations to keep it out of the mainstream media and outside of your awareness. WORDS: Jeffrey M. Smith It looks the same‚Äîthe bread, pies, sodas, even corn on the cob. So much of what we eat every day looks just like 



Document Number: 3278
showings of the film. Use our Film Showing Guide to help publicize the film and mobilize inspired audiences to take effective action to stop GMOs. Update On Bovine Growth Hormone (Rbgh) But first, great news! Monsanto just sold off their bovine growth hormone (rBGH/rBST) business to Ely Lilly‚Äôs animal division, Elanco. Monsanto dumped this genetically engineered drug because snowballing consumer rejection of dairy products from cows treated with rBGH has already driven it out of Wal-Mart, Starbucks, Kroger, and 40 of the top 100 dairies. Our Institute for Responsible Technology was one of many groups that helped bring about this victory by educating consumers about the potential health dangers (increased risks of cancer, higher fraternal twin rate, antibiotic resistant diseases, etc.). Informed people don‚Äôt want anything to do with the drug. When the numbers of concerned, discerning shoppers hit the critical mass, a tipping point in the dairy industry ensued. For the inside scoop, view our new film on rBGH, Your Milk on Drugs‚ÄîJust Say No!, at www.YourMilkonDrugs.com. Better yet, watch it as part of the bonus material on The World According to Monsanto DVD. Film Review: The World According to Monsanto Directed by Marie-Monique Robin Reviewed by Jeffrey M. 



Document Number: 3152
how satisfying it is to catch some nasty multinational corporation telling lies about the safety of their product‚Äîespecially when that company is Monsanto, the world‚Äôs largest maker of genetically modified (GM) foods. So I could only imagine the excitement of investigative reporters Jane Akre and Steve Wilson, who had caught a Monsanto executive on film repeatedly lying about GM bovine growth hormone (rbGH or rbST). The two worked at WTVT, a Fox television station in Tampa, Florida, and were described as a ‚Äútelevision dream team.‚Äù Akre was a former CNN anchorwoman and reporter, Wilson a three-time Emmy Award winner whom Penthouse described as ‚Äúone of the most famous and feared journalists in America.‚Äù Their four-part news series on rbGH was scheduled to begin on February 24, 1997. It was going to expose Monsanto‚Äôs lies to the world, and show how the milk from treated cows was dangerously linked to cancer. Lies, Damn Lies, and Monsanto‚Äôs Lies Monsanto‚Äôs dairy research director Bob Collier, PhD, was the rbGH front man who was interviewed by Jane Akre. Here is a sample of some of his claims. Collier said, [rbGH] ‚Äúis the single most-tested product in history.‚Äù The reporters, however, found that ‚Äúexperts in 



Document Number: 6787
how satisfying it is to catch some nasty multinational corporation telling lies about the safety of their product‚Äîespecially when that company is Monsanto, the world‚Äôs largest maker of genetically modified (GM) foods. So I could only imagine the excitement of investigative reporters Jane Akre and Steve Wilson, who had caught a Monsanto executive on film repeatedly lying about GM bovine growth hormone (rbGH or rbST). The two worked at WTVT, a Fox television station in Tampa, Florida, and were described as a ‚Äútelevision dream team.‚Äù Akre was a former CNN anchorwoman and reporter, Wilson a three-time Emmy Award winner whom Penthouse described as ‚Äúone of the most famous and feared journalists in America.‚Äù Their four-part news series on rbGH was scheduled to begin on February 24, 1997. It was going to expose Monsanto‚Äôs lies to the world, and show how the milk from treated cows was dangerously linked to cancer. Lies, Damn Lies, and Monsanto‚Äôs Lies Monsanto‚Äôs dairy research director Bob Collier, PhD, was the rbGH front man who was interviewed by Jane Akre. Here is a sample of some of his claims. Collier said, [rbGH] ‚Äúis the single most-tested product in history.‚Äù The reporters, however, found that ‚Äúexperts in 



Document Number: 4308
rbST). Although the bill was passed in the Kansas legislature, it would effect the labeling of every product sold in the state, including all national brands. Therefore, we ask everyone to email Governor Sebelius before April 16, urging her to veto the bill. Furthermore, since Governor Sebelius is expected to become the new Secretary of Health and Human Services, the email asks her to use her new appointment to ban this dangerous drug once and for all. The material for this series is drawn from my books Genetic Roulette and Seeds of Deception, and my 18-minute online film Your Milk on Drugs‚ÄìJust Say No!. Get Our Milk off Drugs, Part 2 (See part 1 for the link between bovine growth hormone (rbGH) and cancer.) ‚ÄúThe whole rbGH thing represents fundamental flaws in the regulatory process. . . . It was bad science and bad regulation.‚Äù This was the conclusion of former FDA veterinarian Richard Burroughs, who was a lead reviewer in the approval process of recombinant bovine growth hormone (rbGH) for nearly five years. The drug ‚Äúwas approved prematurely without adequate information,‚Äù says Burroughs, whose life and career became a casualty in a perfect storm of industry manipulation and political 



Document Number: 8472
supply. A bill passed the Kansas legislature on April 3rd, which would restrict any national US dairy from properly labeling their milk products as free from genetically engineered bovine growth hormone (rbGH or rbST). Governor Sebelius must veto it before the April 16th deadline. Send Governor Sebelius an email urging her to do so. Here is the first in a multi-part series explaining why Drugged Milk is dangerous, and how corporate manipulation, bad science, and political collusion pushed it into our food supply. Also check out the 18-minute documentary Your Milk on Drugs‚ÄîJust Say No! Get Our Milk Off Drugs, Part 1 Milk from rbGH-treated cows may increase risk of cancer Growth hormones are created in the pituitary gland. Back in the 1930s, they discovered that injecting cows with their own pituitary extracts boosted milk production. But the process was too expensive and not commercially viable‚Äîuntil genetic engineering came along. Monsanto scientists took the cow gene that creates growth hormones, altered it, and inserted it into E. coli bacteria to create a living drug factory. The bacteria-created hormone is similar, but not identical to the naturally occurring variety. Monsanto marketed it under the brand name Posilac. It is also called 



Document Number: 3623
the truth. He had been an enthusiastic supporter of genetic engineering, working on cutting edge safety research with genetically modified (GM) foods. But to his surprise, his experiments showed that GM foods were inherently dangerous. When he relayed his concerns during a short television interview in the UK, things got ugly. With support from the highest levels of government, biotech defenders quickly mobilized a coordinated attack campaign trying to distort and cover up the evidence. It worked for a while, but when an order of Parliament lifted Dr. Pusztai‚Äôs gag order, the revelations touched off a media firestorm that ultimately kicked GM foods out of European supermarkets, and derailed the industry‚Äôs timetable to quickly replace virtually all food with genetically engineered alternatives. I recount the dramatic story of Dr. Pusztai below. In Part 2, I respond point-by-point to the biotech industry‚Äôs denial and spin over the Pusztai affair, which is still being hyped in their new attack website. Pusztai‚Äôs Hot Potatoes By early 1996, genetically modified tomatoes had been sold in US supermarkets for more than a year, and GM soy, corn, and cottonseed were about to be widely planted. But not a single peer-reviewed study on the safety of 



Document Number: 9224
US soybean fields, leads to problems in growth or reproduction. What he discovered may uproot a multi-billion dollar industry. After feeding hamsters for two years over three generations, those on the GM diet, and especially the group on the maximum GM soy diet, showed devastating results. By the third generation, most GM soy-fed hamsters lost the ability to have babies. They also suffered slower growth, and a high mortality rate among the pups. And if this isn‚Äôt shocking enough, some in the third generation even had hair growing inside their mouths‚Äîa phenomenon rarely seen, but apparently more prevalent among hamsters eating GM soy. The study, jointly conducted by Surov‚Äôs Institute of Ecology and Evolution of the Russian Academy of Sciences and the National Association for Gene Security, is expected to be published in three months (July 2010)‚Äîso the technical details will have to wait. But Surov sketched out the basic set up for me in an email. He used Campbell hamsters, with a fast reproduction rate, divided into 4 groups. All were fed a normal diet, but one was without any soy, another had non-GM soy, a third used GM soy, and a fourth contained higher amounts of GM soy. 



Document Number: 8655
respond to the 65 arguments recently posted on a new attack-Jeffrey website. Their effort offers a priceless opportunity to not only revisit each health risk, but also to show more precisely where and how the biotech industry comes up short in its defense. Be sure to subscribe to my Huffington Post blog to catch the fun. In my initial challenge to the GMO industry, I sought rigorous, independent scientific data that would enrich the global discussion and better characterize GMO risks. But the posts written by biotech apologists Bruce Chassy and David Tribe demonstrate without doubt how flimsy and unsupported the industry‚Äôs claim is that GMOs are safe. Their evidence is neither independent nor rigorous. Instead, Chassy and Tribe merely dust off the same old false assumptions and blatant fabrications that have long been exposed as hollow and even shameless. GMWatch describes it as ‚Äúdisinformation and ad hominem attack dressed up as ‚Äòthe open-minded search for truth.‚Äô‚Äù Dr. Brian John offers this take on the new site: The whole exercise is utterly grotesque‚Äîand is based on the hoary old line that they (Chassy and Tribe) represent ‚Äúproper‚Äù science and that anybody who disagrees with them or who provides ‚Äúinconvenient‚Äù evidence 



Document Number: 6233
We feel it is a ridiculous concern based on very poor science.‚Äù The email, reproduced at the blog of Kelly the Kitchen Kop, even recommended: ‚Äú. . . if these concerns are truly important to you, you may be better served at a health food store. We appreciate your patronage. The Customer Support Team, American Importing Co., Inc.‚Äù Talk about being opinionated and misinformed. There‚Äôs overwhelming evidence showing that genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are unsafe. And there are plenty of sources for non-GMO corn. Did this email get you angry? Are you thinking about flooding the company‚Äôs email with hostile missives? I had another idea. I phoned the company owner. I figured that although the email‚Äôs author was clearly misled, I also knew all about Monsanto and the other devious corporations that dis-informed him‚Äîand how they skillfully depict GMO critics as ridiculous and unscientific. When I got President Andy on the phone and asked if his products were genetically modified (GM), it didn‚Äôt take me long to realize that he was almost certainly the author of his company‚Äôs tactless email. He launched into a diatribe blasting GMOs as the most misconceived issue in the entire food industry. As I took 



Document Number: 2075
it breaks open the stomach of certain insects and kills them. But Monsanto and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) swore up and down that it was only insects that would be hurt. The Bt-toxin, they claimed, would be completely destroyed in the human digestive system and not have any impact on all of us trusting corn-eating consumers. Oops. A study just proved them wrong. Doctors at Sherbrooke University Hospital in Quebec found the corn‚Äôs Bt-toxin in the blood of pregnant women and their babies, as well as in non-pregnant women.i (Specifically, the toxin was identified in 93% of 30 pregnant women, 80% of umbilical blood in their babies, and 67% of 39 non-pregnant women.) The study has been accepted for publication in the peer reviewed journal Reproductive Toxicology. According to the UK Daily Mail, this study, which ‚Äúappears to blow a hole in‚Äù safety claims, ‚Äúhas triggered calls for a ban on imports and a total overhaul of the safety regime for genetically modified (GM) crops and food.‚Äù Organizations from England to New Zealand are now calling for investigations and for GM crops to be halted due to the serious implications of this finding. Links to allergies, auto-immune disease, and 



Document Number: 5457
the measured parameters, including blood and urine biochemistry, organ weights, and microscopic analyses (histopathology), were significantly disrupted in the GM-fed animals. The kidneys of males fared the worst, with 43.5% of all the changes. The liver of females followed, with 30.8%. The report, published in Environmental Sciences Europe on March 1, 2011, confirms that ‚Äúseveral convergent data appear to indicate liver and kidney problems as end points of GMO diet effects.‚Äù The authors point out that livers and kidneys ‚Äúare the major reactive organs‚Äù in cases of chronic food toxicity. ‚ÄúOther organs may be affected too, such as the heart and spleen, or blood cells,‚Äù stated the paper. In fact some of the animals fed genetically modified organisms had altered body weights in at least one gender, which is ‚Äúa very good predictor of side effects in various organs.‚Äù The GM soybean and corn varieties used in the feeding trials ‚Äúconstitute 83% of the commercialized GMOs‚Äù that are currently consumed by billions of people. While the findings may have serious ramifications for the human population, the authors demonstrate how a multitude of GMO-related health problems could easily pass undetected through the superficial and largely incompetent safety assessments that are used 



Document Number: 3410
I have unqualified support of the mission, tactics, and integrity of the organization. In fact, last year we made the requirement that for any product to be listed as non-GMO in our Non-GMO Shopping Guide or iPhone app ShopNoGMO, it had to be enrolled in the Non-GMO Project. At some other time I‚Äôd like to share what I believe to be the pivotal role that the Non-GMO Project plays in coordinating the non-GMO activities of the natural products industry and in giving consumers reliable non-GMO choices. These are, in my opinion, extremely important for driving the tipping point of consumer rejection against GMOs‚Äîwhich is our Institute‚Äôs focus. In this blog, however, I want to address the integrity of the leaders of the Project. It‚Äôs an important consideration, as those of us who avoid GMOs trust them to determine the validity of non-GMO claims. It turns out we‚Äôve already been placing trust in these folks for decades, as they are among the pioneers who created the natural food movement and the organic label, and have led the ever expanding push towards healthier products and socially responsible practices. They also have a long history of taking bold and sometimes unprecedented steps against 



Document Number: 213
approve Roundup Ready alfalfa, which will exacerbate this calamity. Please tell USDA Secretary Vilsack not to approve Monsanto‚Äôs alfalfa today. [Note: typos corrected from Jan 16th, see details] While visiting a seed corn dealer‚Äôs demonstration plots in Iowa last fall, Dr. Don Huber walked past a soybean field and noticed a distinct line separating severely diseased yellowing soybeans on the right from healthy green plants on the left (see photo). The yellow section was suffering from Sudden Death Syndrome (SDS), a serious plant disease that ravaged the Midwest in 2009 and ‚Äô10, driving down yields and profits. Something had caused that area of soybeans to be highly susceptible and Don had a good idea what it was. The diseased field on the right had glyphosate applied the previous season. Photo by Don Huber Don Huber spent 35 years as a plant pathologist at Purdue University and knows a lot about what causes green plants to turn yellow and die prematurely. He asked the seed dealer why the SDS was so severe in the one area of the field and not the other. ‚ÄúDid you plant something there last year that wasn‚Äôt planted in the rest of the field?‚Äù he asked. 



Document Number: 9800
did create those Frankentomatoes, but they were never put on the market. (Breyers low-fat ice cream, however, does contain anti-freeze proteins from Arctic fish genes, but that‚Äôs another story.) The tomato that did make it to market was called the Flavr Savr, engineered for longer shelf life. Fortunately, it was removed from the shelves soon after it was introduced. Although there are no longer any genetically modified (GM) tomatoes being sold today, the FDA‚Äôs shady approval process of the Flavr Savr provides a lesson in food safety‚Äîor rather, the lack of it‚Äîas far as gene-spliced foods are concerned. We know what really went on during the FDA‚Äôs voluntary review process of the Flavr Savr in 1993, because a lawsuit forced the release of 44,000 agency memos. (Those same memos, by the way, also showed that FDA scientists had repeatedly warned their superiors about the serious health risks of genetically modified organisms [GMOs]. They were ignored by the political appointees in charge, who allow GMOs onto the market without any required safety studies.) Bleeding stomachs Calgene, the tomatoes‚Äô creator-in-chief (now a part of Monsanto), voluntarily conducted three 28-day rat feeding studies. Before I share the gory details, I must commend the 



Document Number: 7033
administration drew up ways to retaliate against Europe for refusing to use genetically modified seeds. Watch the interview. ‚ÄúCountry team Paris recommends that we calibrate a target retaliation list that causes some pain across the EU‚Äù [Emphasis added] ‚ÄìRecommendation by US Ambassador to France, Craig Stapleton. Wikileaked cables released over the weekend revealed more about the US‚Äô role as a global bully, trying to thrust unpopular genetically modified (GM) crops onto cautious governments and their citizens. In a 2007 cable from Craig Stapleton, then US Ambassador to France, he encouraged the US government to ‚Äúreinforce our negotiating position with the EU on agricultural biotechnology by publishing a retaliation list.‚Äù A list, he added, that ‚Äúcauses some pain across the EU since this is a collective responsibility.‚Äù The stated reason for their attack was that ‚ÄúEurope is moving backwards not forwards‚Äù on GMOs, with ‚ÄúFrance playing a leading role, along with Austria, Italy and even the [EU] Commission.‚Äù The Ambassador was concerned that France and others would put a ban on the cultivation of Monsanto‚Äôs GM corn seeds called Mon 810, engineered with a gene that produces a toxic insect-killing pesticide in every cell. Mon 810 is the first GM crop 



Document Number: 4445
industry by GMO advocates Bruce Chassy and David Tribe. While they attempt to discredit the scientific evidence in my book Genetic Roulette: The Documented Health Risks of Genetically Engineered Foods, instead they offer priceless examples of distortion, denial, and spin. Their site is yet another example of why we can‚Äôt trust GMOs, Monsanto, or the so-called scientists who support them. In a series of rebuttals, I expose this charade and show why healthy eating starts with no GMOs. (To find out how to avoid GMOs, go to NonGMOShoppingGuide.com.) In Part 1, I recounted the story of scientist-turned-whistleblower Dr. Arpad Pusztai. Here, I provide a point by point refutation of Chassy and Tribe‚Äôs unwarranted attack on Dr. Pusztai and their distortion of his findings. Exposing the Spin on Spuds 1. Experts say no scientific conclusion can be made from the work. Two separate expert panels reviewed this research and concluded that both the experimental design and conduct of the experiments were fatally flawed, and that no scientific conclusion should be drawn from the work. (Royal Society 1999; Fedoroff and Brown 2004) Dr. Pusztai‚Äôs research design had already been used in over 50 peer-reviewed published studies conducted at the Rowett Institute, the 



Document Number: 928
Health Association, American Nurses Association, and numerous others due to its potential for increasing cancer risk. Banned in most other countries and banished from most US dairies, it still lurks behind friendly ‚ÄúAll Natural‚Äù labels of companies like Breyers Ice Cream. Before Monsanto sold off its rbGH division to Eli Lilly in 2008, they lobbied hard to their friends in state governments trying to make it illegal for dairies to label their products as our rbGH-free. They almost won in Ohio‚Äîthat is until an appeals court struck down the state‚Äôs label-muzzlng laws on Thursday, Sept 30th. If the decision had gone the other way, it would have forced all national brands that sold products in Ohio to remove statements like rbGH-free and artificial hormone free from their cartons. The courts still allow Ohio to require a disclaimer on the cartons of those dairies who proclaim to not use the drug. But they told Ohio that they couldn‚Äôt require that the disclaimer be on the same panel of the package as the drug-free claim. Which is very good news. I propose that dairies use a different disclaimer than that now required by Ohio law. Here‚Äôs what I propose: Ohio governor Strickland 



Document Number: 8902
I have already shown that their attack on the first risk, Dr. Pusztai‚Äôs potatoes, was based on pure PR spin and scientific sleight of hand. Below I respond to their accusations regarding the Flavr Savr. 1. (Chassy and Tribe) FDA records clearly show that experts stated that the process of introducing stomach tubes can damage the rats‚Äô stomachs and/or end up placing test material in the lungs. . . The reader is not told that regulators approved the tomato because their concerns had been fully satisfied that the GM tomato was not toxic. As indicated in Part 1, the actual scientists at the FDA wrote memo after memo declaring that the higher rates of lesions in the GM-fed group could not be explained away, and that they were not fully satisfied by the explanations. The discrepancy between what the political appointees at the agency stated publicly, and the concerns expressed in private memos by the scientific staff, has been clearly documented. In fact, one memo reveals that during their Flavr Savr review, the FDA was making blatant and possibly illegal exceptions. One person wrote, ‚ÄúIt has been made clear to us that this present submission [Flavr Savr] is not a 



Document Number: 2057
anything like that to me before. I was deeply touched. That was 2004. It was just 8 months since launching Seeds of Deception and I had already toured five continents. I didn‚Äôt know it at the time, but I was just getting started. And I would meet countless others whose lives were also transformed by the truth about genetically modified (GM) foods. The world today is quite different than when I started out as a non-GMO road warrior. Most Americans had said they would avoid genetically modified organisms if labeled, but now millions are no longer waiting. They‚Äôre actively seeking non-GMO foods. And many are enthusiastically getting the word out to others. As a personal thank you, I wanted to share a few stories from this year‚Äôs travels in the US about individuals whose commitments to non-GMO eating were inspired by rather compelling circumstances. Non-GMO Doctoring I spent some time at the medical practices of two Chicago area doctors who, like many I know, prescribe non-GMO diets to everyone. The doctors had told me that taking people off of GM foods is a very important part of health and healing, but I didn‚Äôt appreciate the full extent of it until 



Document Number: 4328
B.A. in biochemistry and an M.D. from the University of Cambridge and a Ph.D. in genetics from the University of Bristol. Since 1971, I have been a member of the Royal College of Pathologists, and since 1983, I have been Professor of Medical Microbiology at the University of Leeds. (I have been on Emeritus status since 1995.) 3. I am an expert in food safety issues, and my background makes me especially qualified to assess the potential risks of genetically engineered food products. I served four years on a U.K. government advisory panel on food as it relates to human and animal health, and I have written five books on food safety, including one published by Cambridge University Press in 1994 containing a detailed discussion of genetically engineered food. (This book has been translated into Japanese and Polish.) In addition, I have written over 200 articles published in standard scientific journals and attended and spoken at numerous scientific conferences both in the U.K. and abroad. (A list of my publications and honors is attached.) 4. In 1989, I anticipated that there could be serious health risks to the British cattle and human populations from the practice of feeding cattle rendered 



Document Number: 1180
World from the industrialised countries, it is that they take science a lot more seriously than we do in the GM debate. I was researcher and university lecturer of genetics throughout the mid-1970s to the early1980s when new discoveries on the fluid genome made headlines every week. Researchers back then were building a new paradigm, dispelling once and for all the notion that a gene is constant and independent of context. The thought that a gene could be patented as an invention probably never crossed their mind. And if it did, they would have dismissed it as a joke. Craig Venter of Celera may have only just discovered that genetic determinism cannot deliver the goods after he's sequenced the human genome. But many of us knew that genetic determinism had died with the revelations of the fluid genome, if not before [1]. And now, almost two decades later, science is in crisis in more ways than one. The paradigm change that should have occurred, did not. On the contrary, the scientific establishment remained strongly wedded to genetic determinism, which has misguided genetic engineering, making even the most unethical applications appear compelling, such as 'therapeutic' human cloning, for one [2]. Bioethics 



Document Number: 4566
the erroneous concept that genetic engineering is just like plant breeding on the other, I believe that the three issues which should be of most concern on the basis of established science receive little or no discussion. These are: ntists from 55 countries around the world to sign an Open Letter to all Governments demanding a moratorium on environment 2. the recent observations that the introduction of any gene, be it from a different or the same species, always significantly changes overall gene expression and therefore the phenotype of the recipient cell; and 3. the possibility that enzymatic pathways introduced to synthesize small molecules such as vitamins can interact with endogenous pathways to produce novel molecules. The potential consequence of all of these perturbations could be the production of biomolecules that are either toxic or carcinogenic, and there is no a priori way of predicting the outcome. I will give a few examples and then argue why GM food is not a safe alternative. In addition to their primary sequence of amino acids, the structure and biological activity of proteins can be modified by the addition of molecules such as phosphate, sulfate, sugars or lipids. The nature of these secondary 



Document Number: 8698
about mutations and survival of populations. The idea is that mutation contributes to variability and variability drives the success of a population in the face of a changing environment. However, most mutations are deleterious. Error catastrophe occurs when high mutation rates give rise to so many deleterious mutations that they make the population go extinct. For example, foot and mouth disease virus treated with mutagens (base analogues fluorouracil and azacytidine) eventually become extinct [1]. Polio virus treated with the mutagenic drug ribavirin similarly went extinct [2]. Error catastrophe theory has led to a strategy of mutagenesis to control disease viruses. Somaclonal variation a form of gene and chromosome instability that results from the tissue and embryo culture technique used in making GM plants [3]. Somaclonal variation occurs in tissue and embryo culture even without genetic modification, but genetic modification often makes it worse. Somaclonal variation is associated with replication of genetic elements called retrotransposons that replicate in the plant cell nucleus and are inserted into structural genes, causing mutation and chromosome rearrangement [4]. The genetic changes activated in GM may be numerous and subtle, and may produce gradual loss in productivity of GM varieties or unexpected toxic plant products. Transposons 



Document Number: 4223
recently, foods derived from these crops have been tacitly accepted by US consumers. In contrast, many European consumers have shown a marked resistance to these technologies which, in turn, has resulted in the passage of trade restrictions and of laws that limit the import, growth or use of rDNA crops throughout much of Europe. The public uproar in Europe, and the protests surrounding the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle, have now raised the awareness of many in the USA and given birth to a vocal and growing group of concerned consumers. The intensity of the current debate has surprised many in the scientific community and has escalated into a highly polarized and increasingly antagonistic debate. Scientists, and the professional organizations that represent them, have been publicly supportive of this technology and often dismissive of public concerns. Most scientific comment suggests that 'education' is the key to gaining the needed acceptance, while almost no comment has recognized or addressed the fears of the public. Those who oppose rDNA technology interpret the apparent willingness of the US scientific community to embrace this new technology, while failing to adequately address the potential risks, as a betrayal of public trust. Public uncertainty has 



Document Number: 8603
Professor of Ecology, Behavior and Evolution at the University of Minnesota (St. Paul), where I have been on the faculty since 1970. 2. I have made several important contributions to the study of plant biology, particularly in the area of how genetics relates to adaptability and organization of organisms. I have nine publications on this particular topic among my contributions to the peer reviewed scientific literature. (A list of my publications and key presentations is attached.) 3. Since 1983, I have closely studied various safety issues concerning the use of recombinant DNA technology (RDNA technology; genetic engineering) to develop new plant varieties. My involvement has been both intensive and extensive. I have attended and sometimes organized scientific biosafety workshops for government agencies and scientific societies, presented at conferences, and published articles on agricultural genetic engineering in the scientific literature. I have consulted for and worked closely with government regulatory agencies, Congressional staff, scientific organizations, private corporations, and public interest groups. 4. It is my professional opinion that utilizing RDNA technology in production of food-producing organisms can be very powerful biologically and very different biologically from conventional forms of breeding. It entails a set of risks to human health that are 



Document Number: 5694
believes that the impact of foodstuffs from cloned animals on human health can not at this point be adequately assessed on the basis of existing scientific data. The Soil Association is also opposed to the cloning process because it is so damaging to animal welfare. , the Food Standards Agency asked for views on a potential change in its interpretation of the Novel Foods Regulation. You can read the Soil Association response below, and if you would also like to respond yourself, you have until Thursday 10th February to do so. You can send your response to Dr Sandy Lawrie Head of Novel Foods Unit at novelfoods@foodstandards.gsi.gov.uk More information about the cloning issue can be found FOOD FROM DESCENDANTS OF CLONED ANIMALS: SOIL ASSOCIATION RESPONSE We write in response to your letter (13th January 2011) regarding the potential change of the FSA’s advice on the interpretation of the novel foods regulation (Regulation (EC) 258/97) in respect of food from the descendants of cloned cattle and pigs. The Soil Association is extremely concerned that the FSA is considering changing its advice to the position that “there are no food safety grounds for regulating foods from the descendants of cloned cattle and 



Document Number: 40
put pressure on them to do the same so UK consumers can make the choice if they want to avoid GM. Although many of these chains have banned GM ingredients from their own-label products this ban on GM does not extend to the feed given to their livestock. Nearly all the non-organic milk, dairy products and pork in UK supermarkets are being produced from animals fed on GM crops, which means most consumers are unwittingly eating food produced from GM crops everyday. The French supermarket chain will use a green logo which reads â&euro;&tilde;Nourri sans OGMâ&euro;&trade; or â&euro;&tilde;Reared without GMâ&euro;&trade; which relates to about 300 products including eggs, poultry, pork, and farmed fish and will be extended to milk and dairy products. Carrefour made a decision to use the logo after research revealed that 96% of consumers backed honest labeling and 63% would stop eating products from animals reared on GM feed. Peter Melchett, Soil Association policy director, said: â&euro;&oelig;This has long been a gaping hole in the non-GM policies of all UK multiple retailers.Â  What is worse, there has been a complete lack of openness and honesty with customers. There is clear evidence that this misleads consumers into thinking 


simplistic , silly and tedious . 
it's so laddish and juvenile , only teenage boys could possibly find it funny . 
exploitative and largely devoid of the depth or sophistication that would make watching such a graphic treatment of the crimes bearable . 
[garbus] discards the potential for pathological study , exhuming instead , the skewed melodrama of the circumstantial situation . 
a visually flashy but narratively opaque and emotionally vapid exercise in style and mystification . 
the story is also as unoriginal as they come , already having been recycled more times than i'd care to count . 
about the only thing to give the movie points for is bravado -- to take an entirely stale concept and push it through the audience's meat 

grinder one more time . 
not so much farcical as sour . 
unfortunately the story and the actors are served with a hack script . 
all the more disquieting for its relatively gore-free allusions to the serial murders , but it falls down in its attempts to humanize its 

subject . 
a sentimental mess that never rings true . 
while the performances are often engaging , this loose collection of largely improvised numbers would probably have worked better as a one-hour 

tv documentary . 
interesting , but not compelling . 
on a cutting room floor somewhere lies . . . footage that might have made no such thing a trenchant , ironic cultural satire instead of a 

frustrating misfire . 
while the ensemble player who gained notice in guy ritchie's lock , stock and two smoking barrels and snatch has the bod , he's unlikely to 

become a household name on the basis of his first starring vehicle . 
there is a difference between movies with the courage to go over the top and movies that don't care about being stupid
nothing here seems as funny as it did in analyze this , not even joe viterelli as de niro's right-hand goombah . 
such master screenwriting comes courtesy of john pogue , the yale grad who previously gave us " the skulls " and last year's " rollerball . " 

enough said , except : film overboard ! 
here , common sense flies out the window , along with the hail of bullets , none of which ever seem to hit sascha . 
this 100-minute movie only has about 25 minutes of decent material . 
the execution is so pedestrian that the most positive comment we can make is that rob schneider actually turns in a pretty convincing 

performance as a prissy teenage girl . 
on its own , it's not very interesting . as a remake , it's a pale imitation . 
it shows that some studios firmly believe that people have lost the ability to think and will forgive any shoddy product as long as there's a 

little girl-on-girl action . 
a farce of a parody of a comedy of a premise , it isn't a comparison to reality so much as it is a commentary about our knowledge of films . 
as exciting as all this exoticism might sound to the typical pax viewer , the rest of us will be lulled into a coma . 
the party scenes deliver some tawdry kicks . the rest of the film . . . is dudsville . 
our culture is headed down the toilet with the ferocity of a frozen burrito after an all-night tequila bender ó and i know this because i've 

seen 'jackass : the movie . '
the criticism never rises above easy , cynical potshots at morally bankrupt characters . . . 
the movie's something-borrowed construction feels less the product of loving , well integrated homage and more like a mere excuse for the wan , 

thinly sketched story . killing time , that's all that's going on here . 
stupid , infantile , redundant , sloppy , over-the-top , and amateurish . yep , it's " waking up in reno . " go back to sleep . 
somewhere in the middle , the film compels , as demme experiments he harvests a few movie moment gems , but the field of roughage dominates . 
the action clichÈs just pile up . 
payami tries to raise some serious issues about iran's electoral process , but the result is a film that's about as subtle as a party political 

broadcast . 
the only surprise is that heavyweights joel silver and robert zemeckis agreed to produce this ; i assume the director has pictures of them 

cavorting in ladies' underwear . 
another useless recycling of a brutal mid-'70s american sports movie . 
i didn't laugh . i didn't smile . i survived . 
please , someone , stop eric schaeffer before he makes another film . 
most of the problems with the film don't derive from the screenplay , but rather the mediocre performances by most of the actors involved
 . . . if you're just in the mood for a fun -- but bad -- movie , you might want to catch freaks as a matinee . 
curling may be a unique sport but men with brooms is distinctly ordinary . 
though the opera itself takes place mostly indoors , jacquot seems unsure of how to evoke any sort of naturalism on the set . 
there's no getting around the fact that this is revenge of the nerds revisited -- again . 
the effort is sincere and the results are honest , but the film is so bleak that it's hardly watchable . 
analyze that regurgitates and waters down many of the previous film's successes , with a few new swings thrown in . 
with flashbulb editing as cover for the absence of narrative continuity , undisputed is nearly incoherent , an excuse to get to the closing 

bout . . . by which time it's impossible to care who wins . 
stinks from start to finish , like a wet burlap sack of gloom . 
to the civilized mind , a movie like ballistic : ecks vs . sever is more of an ordeal than an amusement . 
equlibrium could pass for a thirteen-year-old's book report on the totalitarian themes of 1984 and farenheit 451 . 
the lack of naturalness makes everything seem self-consciously poetic and forced . . . it's a pity that [nelson's] achievement doesn't match 

his ambition . 
everything is off . 
when seagal appeared in an orange prison jumpsuit , i wanted to stand up in the theater and shout , 'hey , kool-aid ! '
an easy watch , except for the annoying demeanour of its lead character . 
imagine the cleanflicks version of 'love story , ' with ali macgraw's profanities replaced by romance-novel platitudes . 
pc stability notwithstanding , the film suffers from a simplistic narrative and a pat , fairy-tale conclusion . 
forget the misleading title , what's with the unexplained baboon cameo ? 
an odd , haphazard , and inconsequential romantic comedy . 
though her fans will assuredly have their funny bones tickled , others will find their humor-seeking dollars best spent elsewhere . 
pascale bailly's rom-com provides amÈlie's audrey tautou with another fabuleux destin -- i . e . , a banal spiritual quest . 
a static and sugary little half-hour , after-school special about interfaith understanding , stretched out to 90 minutes . 
watching the chemistry between freeman and judd , however , almost makes this movie worth seeing . almost . 
 . . . a pretentious and ultimately empty examination of a sick and evil woman . 
the country bears has no scenes that will upset or frighten young viewers . unfortunately , there is almost nothing in this flat effort that 

will amuse or entertain them , either . 
the cumulative effect of watching this 65-minute trifle is rather like being trapped while some weird relative trots out the video he took of 

the family vacation to stonehenge . before long , you're desperate for the evening to end . 
the characters are never more than sketches . . . which leaves any true emotional connection or identification frustratingly out of reach . 
mattei's underdeveloped effort here is nothing but a convenient conveyor belt of brooding personalities that parade about as if they were 

coming back from stock character camp -- a drowsy drama infatuated by its own pretentious self-examination . 
only in its final surprising shots does rabbit-proof fence find the authority it's looking for . 
isn't as sharp as the original . . . despite some visual virtues , 'blade ii' just doesn't cut it . 
 . . . plays like a badly edited , 91-minute trailer ( and ) the director can't seem to get a coherent rhythm going . in fact , it doesn't even 

seem like she tried . 
maybe leblanc thought , " hey , the movie about the baseball-playing monkey was worse . " 
what you expect is just what you get . . . assuming the bar of expectations hasn't been raised above sixth-grade height . 
barry sonnenfeld owes frank the pug big time
the biggest problem with roger avary's uproar against the mpaa is that , even in all its director's cut glory , he's made a film that's barely 

shocking , barely interesting and most of all , barely anything . 
so riddled with unanswered questions that it requires gargantuan leaps of faith just to watch it plod along . 
i approached the usher and said that if she had to sit through it again , she should ask for a raise . 
earnest but heavy-handed . 
if sinise's character had a brain his ordeal would be over in five minutes but instead the plot goes out of its way to introduce obstacles for 

him to stumble over . 
too slow for a younger crowd , too shallow for an older one . 
there's a reason the studio didn't offer an advance screening . " the adventures of pluto nash " is a big time stinker . 
a punch line without a premise , a joke built entirely from musty memories of half-dimensional characters . 
takes one character we don't like and another we don't believe , and puts them into a battle of wills that is impossible to care about and 

isn't very funny . 
the things this movie tries to get the audience to buy just won't fly with most intelligent viewers . 
even if the enticing prospect of a lot of nubile young actors in a film about campus depravity didn't fade amid the deliberate , tiresome 

ugliness , it would be rendered tedious by avary's failure to construct a story with even a trace of dramatic interest . 
sitting through the last reel ( spoiler alert ! ) is significantly less charming than listening to a four-year-old with a taste for 

exaggeration recount his halloween trip to the haunted house . 
confuses its message with an ultimate desire to please , and contorting itself into an idea of expectation is the last thing any of these three 

actresses , nor their characters , deserve . 
deadly dull , pointless meditation on losers in a gone-to-seed hotel . 
with this new rollerball , sense and sensibility have been overrun by what can only be characterized as robotic sentiment . 
one can only assume that the jury who bestowed star hoffman's brother gordy with the waldo salt screenwriting award at 2002's sundance festival 

were honoring an attempt to do something different over actually pulling it off
a movie more to be prescribed than recommended -- as visually bland as a dentist's waiting room , complete with soothing muzak and a cushion of 

predictable narrative rhythms . 
sex ironically has little to do with the story , which becomes something about how lame it is to try and evade your responsibilities and that 

you should never , ever , leave a large dog alone with a toddler . but never mind all that ; the boobs are fantasti
the script covers huge , heavy topics in a bland , surfacey way that doesn't offer any insight into why , for instance , good things happen to 

bad people . 
a portrait of alienation so perfect , it will certainly succeed in alienating most viewers . 
the code talkers deserved better than a hollow tribute . 
skip the film and buy the philip glass soundtrack cd . 
feels like a cold old man going through the motions . 
dignified ceo's meet at a rustic retreat and pee against a tree . can you bear the laughter ? 
dull and mechanical , kinda like a very goofy museum exhibit
there's no point of view , no contemporary interpretation of joan's prefeminist plight , so we're left thinking the only reason to make the 

movie is because present standards allow for plenty of nudity . 
beware the quirky brit-com . they can and will turn on a dime from oddly humorous to tediously sentimental . 
has its moments -- and almost as many subplots . 
the gags , and the script , are a mixed bag . 
completely awful iranian drama . . . as much fun as a grouchy ayatollah in a cold mosque . 
narratively , trouble every day is a plodding mess . 
there's no point in extracting the bare bones of byatt's plot for purposes of bland hollywood romance . 
directors john musker and ron clements , the team behind the little mermaid , have produced sparkling retina candy , but they aren't able to 

muster a lot of emotional resonance in the cold vacuum of space . 
adam sandler's heart may be in the right place , but he needs to pull his head out of his butt
there's no doubting that this is a highly ambitious and personal project for egoyan , but it's also one that , next to his best work , feels 

clumsy and convoluted . 
despite engaging offbeat touches , knockaround guys rarely seems interested in kicking around a raison d'etre that's as fresh-faced as its 

young-guns cast . 
it's all pretty tame . the most offensive thing about the movie is that hollywood expects people to pay to see it . 
the movie is a mess from start to finish . 
the trouble with making this queen a thoroughly modern maiden is that it also makes her appear foolish and shallow rather than , as was more 

likely , a victim of mental illness . 
i'm not saying that ice age doesn't have some fairly pretty pictures , but there's not enough substance in the story to actually give them life 

. 
in the telling of a story largely untold , bui chooses to produce something that is ultimately suspiciously familiar . 
the plot is nothing but boilerplate clichÈs from start to finish , and the script assumes that not only would subtlety be lost on the target 

audience , but that it's also too stupid to realize that they've already seen this exact same movie a hundred times
terminally brain dead production . 
some episodes work , some don't . 
beautifully filmed and well acted . . . but admittedly problematic in its narrative specifics . 
j . lo will earn her share of the holiday box office pie , although this movie makes one thing perfectly clear : she's a pretty woman , but 

she's no working girl . 
rymer doesn't trust laughs -- and doesn't conjure proper respect for followers of the whole dead-undead genre , who deserve more from a vampire 

pic than a few shrieky special effects . 
not only are the film's sopranos gags incredibly dated and unfunny , they also demonstrate how desperate the makers of this 'we're -doing-it-

for -the-cash' sequel were . 
wow . i have not been this disappointed by a movie in a long time . 
off the hook is overlong and not well-acted , but credit writer-producer-director adam watstein with finishing it at all . 
it's a drag how nettelbeck sees working women -- or at least this working woman -- for whom she shows little understanding . 
watching harris ham it up while physically and emotionally disintegrating over the course of the movie has a certain poignancy in light of his 

recent death , but boyd's film offers little else of consequence . 
it's also curious to note that this film , like the similarly ill-timed antitrust , is easily as bad at a fraction the budget . 
'ejemplo de una cinta en que no importa el talento de su reparto o lo interesante que pudo haber resultado su premisa , pues el resultado es 

francamente aburrido y , por momentos , deplorable . '
will probably be one of those movies barely registering a blip on the radar screen of 2002 . 
the problem is not that it's all derivative , because plenty of funny movies recycle old tropes . the problem is that van wilder does little 

that is actually funny with the material . 
there's nothing interesting in unfaithful whatsoever . 
none of this is half as moving as the filmmakers seem to think . 
a processed comedy chop suey . 
as spent screen series go , star trek : nemesis is even more suggestive of a 65th class reunion mixer where only eight surviving members show 

up -- and there's nothing to drink . 
fails as a dystopian movie , as a retooling of fahrenheit 451 , and even as a rip-off of the matrix . 
full of the kind of obnoxious chitchat that only self-aware neurotics engage in . 
an erotic thriller that's neither too erotic nor very thrilling , either . 
the movie , like bartleby , is something of a stiff -- an extra-dry office comedy that seems twice as long as its 83 minutes . 
with its parade of almost perpetually wasted characters . . . margarita feels like a hazy high that takes too long to shake . 
if you value your time and money , find an escape clause and avoid seeing this trite , predictable rehash . 
the director and her capable cast appear to be caught in a heady whirl of new age-inspired good intentions , but the spell they cast isn't the 

least bit mesmerizing . 
everything is pegged into the groove of a new york dating comedy with 'issues' to simplify . 
a dramatic comedy as pleasantly dishonest and pat as any hollywood fluff . 
the cameo-packed , m : i-2-spoofing title sequence is the funniest 5 minutes to date in this spy comedy franchise . . . then mike myers shows 

up and ruins everything . 
it comes off as so silly that you wouldn't be surprised if ba , murdock and rest of the a-team were seen giving chase in a black and red van . 
the 50-something lovebirds are too immature and unappealing to care about . 
so genial is the conceit , this is one of those rare pictures that you root for throughout , dearly hoping that the rich promise of the script 

will be realized on the screen . it never is , not fully . 
even in the summertime , the most restless young audience deserves the dignity of an action hero motivated by something more than franchise 

possibilities . 
what with all the blanket statements and dime-store ruminations on vanity , the worries of the rich and sudden wisdom , the film becomes a 

sermon for most of its running time . 
one lousy movie . 
as gamely as the movie tries to make sense of its title character , there remains a huge gap between the film's creepy , clean-cut dahmer ( 

jeremy renner ) and fiendish acts that no amount of earnest textbook psychologizing can bridge . 
plodding , peevish and gimmicky . 
the four feathers is definitely horse feathers , but if you go in knowing that , you might have fun in this cinematic sandbox . 
oozes condescension from every pore . 
solaris " is a shapeless inconsequential move relying on the viewer to do most of the work . 
the direction , by george hickenlooper , has no snap to it , no wiseacre crackle or hard-bitten cynicism . 
 . . . hypnotically dull . 
though this saga would be terrific to read about , it is dicey screen material that only a genius should touch . 
it has plenty of laughs . it just doesn't have much else . . . especially in a moral sense . 
an awful lot like one of [spears'] music videos in content -- except that it goes on for at least 90 more minutes and , worse , that you have 

to pay if you want to see it . 
confusion is one of my least favourite emotions , especially when i have to put up with 146 minutes of it . 
[h]ad i suffered and bled on the hard ground of ia drang , i'd want something a bit more complex than we were soldiers to be remembered by . 
occasionally loud and offensive , but more often , it simply lulls you into a gentle waking coma . 
it may play well as a double feature with mainstream foreign mush like my big fat greek wedding
by the time you reach the finale , you're likely wondering why you've been watching all this strutting and posturing . 
journalistically dubious , inept and often lethally dull . 
putting the primitive murderer inside a high-tech space station unleashes a pandora's box of special effects that run the gamut from cheesy to 

cheesier to cheesiest . 
 at its best , it's black hawk down with more heart . at its worst , it's rambo- meets-john ford . 
exactly what you'd expect from a guy named kaos . 
calculated swill . 
this movie . . . doesn't deserve the energy it takes to describe how bad it is . 
with or without ballast tanks , k-19 sinks to a harrison ford low . 
director oliver parker labors so hard to whip life into the importance of being earnest that he probably pulled a muscle or two . 
you might be shocked to discover that seinfeld's real life is boring . 
it's not nearly as fresh or enjoyable as its predecessor , but there are enough high points to keep this from being a complete waste of time . 
walsh can't quite negotiate the many inconsistencies in janice's behavior or compensate for them by sheer force of charm . 
this 10th film in the series looks and feels tired . 
it leers , offering next to little insight into its intriguing subject . 
i found myself growing more and more frustrated and detached as vincent became more and more abhorrent . 
one of the oddest and most inexplicable sequels in movie history . 
there's nothing to gain from watching they . it isn't scary . it hates its characters . it finds no way to entertain or inspire its viewers . 
fear permeates the whole of stortelling , todd solondz' oftentimes funny , yet ultimately cowardly autocritique . 
the skirmishes for power waged among victims and predators settle into an undistinguished rhythm of artificial suspense . 
thoroughly awful . 
 . . . ice age treads predictably along familiar territory , making it a passable family film that won't win many fans over the age of 12 . 
though the film is well-intentioned , one could rent the original and get the same love story and parable . 
just too silly and sophomoric to ensnare its target audience . 
the video work is so grainy and rough , so dependent on being 'naturalistic' rather than carefully lit and set up , that it's exhausting to 

watch . 
truly terrible . 
a cleverly crafted but ultimately hollow mockumentary . 
it gets bogged down by hit-and-miss topical humour before getting to the truly good stuff . 
an achingly enthralling premise , the film is hindered by uneven dialogue and plot lapses . 
it's tommy's job to clean the peep booths surrounding her , and after viewing this one , you'll feel like mopping up , too . 
rifkin no doubt fancies himself something of a hubert selby jr . , but there isn't an ounce of honest poetry in his entire script ; it's simply 

crude and unrelentingly exploitative . 
fluffy and disposible . 
such a bad movie that its luckiest viewers will be seated next to one of those ignorant pinheads who talk throughout the show . 
if you go into the theater expecting a scary , action-packed chiller , you might soon be looking for a sign . an exit sign , that is . 
holds limited appeal to those who like explosions , sadism and seeing people beat each other to a pulp . 
the dialogue is very choppy and monosyllabic despite the fact that it is being dubbed . 
a feature-length , r-rated , road-trip version of mama's family . 
what you end up getting is the vertical limit of surfing movies - memorable stunts with lots of downtime in between . 
stealing harvard doesn't care about cleverness , wit or any other kind of intelligent humor . 
bigelow handles the nuclear crisis sequences evenly but milks drama when she should be building suspense , and drags out too many scenes toward 

the end that should move quickly . 
there's undeniable enjoyment to be had from films crammed with movie references , but the fun wears thin -- then out -- when there's nothing 

else happening . 
imagine kevin smith , the blasphemous bad boy of suburban jersey , if he were stripped of most of his budget and all of his sense of humor . 

the result might look like vulgar . 
suffers from a lack of clarity and audacity that a subject as monstrous and pathetic as dahmer demands . 
what soured me on the santa clause 2 was that santa bumps up against 21st century reality so hard , it's icky . 
it's an 88-minute highlight reel that's 86 minutes too long . 
the film favors the scientific over the spectacular ( visually speaking ) . 
such an incomprehensible mess that it feels less like bad cinema than like being stuck in a dark pit having a nightmare about bad cinema . 
with the exception of mccoist , the players don't have a clue on the park . the acting isn't much better . 
the whole affair is as predictable as can be . 
a not-so-divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood with a hefty helping of re-fried green tomatoes . 
this cloying , voices-from-the-other-side story is hell . 
a suffocating rape-payback horror show that hinges on the subgenre's most enabling victim . . . and an ebullient affection for industrial-model 

meat freezers . 
star trek was kind of terrific once , but now it is a copy of a copy of a copy . 
[n]o matter how much good will the actors generate , showtime eventually folds under its own thinness . 
every potential twist is telegraphed well in advance , every performance respectably muted ; the movie itself seems to have been made under the 

influence of rohypnol . 
puts on airs of a hal hartley wannabe film -- without the vital comic ingredient of the hilarious writer-director himself . 
ver wiel's desperate attempt at wit is lost , leaving the character of critical jim two-dimensional and pointless . 
despite a performance of sustained intelligence from stanford and another of subtle humour from bebe neuwirth , as an older woman who seduces 

oscar , the film founders on its lack of empathy for the social milieu - rich new york intelligentsia - and its off
although disney follows its standard formula in this animated adventure , it feels more forced than usual . 
gaghan . . . has thrown every suspenseful clichÈ in the book at this nonsensical story . 
a sham construct based on theory , sleight-of-hand , and ill-wrought hypothesis . 
[p]artnering murphy with robert de niro for the tv-cops comedy showtime would seem to be surefire casting . the catch is that they're stuck 

with a script that prevents them from firing on all cylinders . 
'you'll laugh for not quite and hour and a half , but come out feeling strangely unsatisfied . you'll feel like you ate a reeses without the 

peanut butter . . . '
gooding offers a desperately ingratiating performance . 
parker should be commended for taking a fresh approach to familiar material , but his determination to remain true to the original text leads 

him to adopt a somewhat mannered tone . . . that ultimately dulls the human tragedy at the story's core . 
the director has injected self-consciousness into the proceedings at every turn . the results are far more alienating than involving . 
bogdanich is unashamedly pro-serbian and makes little attempt to give voice to the other side . 
a lack of thesis makes maryam , in the end , play out with the intellectual and emotional impact of an after-school special . 
the worst film of the year . 
by-the-numbers yarn . 
without shakespeare's eloquent language , the update is dreary and sluggish . 
if h . g . wells had a time machine and could take a look at his kin's reworked version , what would he say ? 'it looks good , sonny , but you 

missed the point . '
during the tuxedo's 90 minutes of screen time , there isn't one true 'chan moment' . 
bisset delivers a game performance , but she is unable to save the movie . 
watching austin powers in goldmember is like binging on cotton candy . it's sweet and fluffy at the time , but it may leave you feeling a 

little sticky and unsatisfied . 
the most anti-human big studio picture since 3000 miles to graceland . 
the film can depress you about life itself . 
i'm sure the filmmakers found this a remarkable and novel concept , but anybody who has ever seen an independent film can report that it is 

instead a cheap clichÈ . 
the acting is fine but the script is about as interesting as a recording of conversations at the wal-mart checkout line . 
its weighty themes are too grave for youngsters , but the story is too steeped in fairy tales and other childish things to appeal much to 

teenagers . 
the plot plummets into a comedy graveyard before janice comes racing to the rescue in the final reel . 
sometimes there are very , very good reasons for certain movies to be sealed in a jar and left on a remote shelf indefinitely . 
at 90 minutes this movie is short , but it feels much longer . 
here's my advice , kev . start reading your scripts before signing that dotted line . 
an alternately raucous and sappy ethnic sitcom . . . you'd be wise to send your regrets . 
an ugly-duckling tale so hideously and clumsily told it feels accidental . 
unfortunately , it's also not very good . especially compared with the television series that inspired the movie . 
it wraps up a classic mother/daughter struggle in recycled paper with a shiny new bow and while the audience can tell it's not all new , at 

least it looks pretty . 
glazed with a tawdry b-movie scum . 
this is the kind of movie during which you want to bang your head on the seat in front of you , at its cluelessness , at its idiocy , at its 

utterly misplaced earnestness . 
it winds up moving in many directions as it searches ( vainly , i think ) for something fresh to say . 
all in all , road to perdition is more in love with strangeness than excellence . 
a big fat pain . 
a mimetic approximation of better films like contempt and 8 1/2 . 
unintelligible , poorly acted , brain-slappingly bad , harvard man is ludicrous enough that it could become a cult classic . 
watching the powerpuff girls movie , my mind kept returning to one anecdote for comparison : the cartoon in japan that gave people seizures . 
aan opportunity wasted . 
an inelegant combination of two unrelated shorts that falls far short of the director's previous work in terms of both thematic content and 

narrative strength . 
to build a feel-good fantasy around a vain dictator-madman is off-putting , to say the least , not to mention inappropriate and wildly 

undeserved . 
with the cheesiest monsters this side of a horror spoof , which they isn't , it is more likely to induce sleep than fright . 
mild , meandering teen flick . 
though its atmosphere is intriguing . . . the drama is finally too predictable to leave much of an impression . 
though this rude and crude film does deliver a few gut-busting laughs , its digs at modern society are all things we've seen before . 
although it tries to be much more , it's really just another major league . 
astonishing isn't the word -- neither is incompetent , incoherent or just plain crap . indeed , none of these words really gets at the very 

special type of badness that is deuces wild . 
one thing is for sure : this movie does not tell you a whole lot about lily chou-chou . 
with a tone as variable as the cinematography , schaeffer's film never settles into the light-footed enchantment the material needs , and the 

characters' quirks and foibles never jell into charm . 
to better understand why this didn't connect with me would require another viewing , and i won't be sitting through this one again . . . that 

in itself is commentary enough . 
cuba gooding jr . valiantly mugs his way through snow dogs , but even his boisterous energy fails to spark this leaden comedy . 
diane lane's sophisticated performance can't rescue adrian lyne's unfaithful from its sleazy moralizing . 
not at all clear what it's trying to say and even if it were ñ i doubt it would be all that interesting . 
storytelling feels slight . 
[swimfan] falls victim to sloppy plotting , an insultingly unbelievable final act and a villainess who is too crazy to be interesting . 
this remake of lina wertmuller's 1975 eroti-comedy might just be the biggest husband-and-wife disaster since john and bo derek made the 

ridiculous bolero . 
silly , loud and goofy . 
why spend $9 on the same stuff you can get for a buck or so in that greasy little vidgame pit in the theater lobby ? 
the french director has turned out nearly 21/2 hours of unfocused , excruciatingly tedious cinema that , half an hour in , starts making water 

torture seem appealing . 
the basic premise is intriguing but quickly becomes distasteful and downright creepy . 
the pool drowned me in boredom . 
it's like an all-star salute to disney's cheesy commercialism . 
it's hard to imagine any recent film , independent or otherwise , that makes as much of a mess as this one . 
some of the computer animation is handsome , and various amusing sidekicks add much-needed levity to the otherwise bleak tale , but overall the 

film never rises above mediocrity . 
there's an excellent 90-minute film here ; unfortunately , it runs for 170 . 
as saccharine movies go , this is likely to cause massive cardiac arrest if taken in large doses . 
die another day is only intermittently entertaining but it's hard not to be a sucker for its charms , or perhaps it's just impossible not to 

feel nostalgia for movies you grew up with . 
as is often the case with ambitious , eager first-time filmmakers , mr . murray , a prolific director of music videos , stuffs his debut with 

more plot than it can comfortably hold . 
the mystery of enigma is how a rich historical subject , combined with so much first-rate talent . . . could have yielded such a flat , 

plodding picture . 
it throws quirky characters , odd situations , and off-kilter dialogue at us , all as if to say , " look at this ! this is an interesting movie 

! " but the film itself is ultimately quite unengaging . 
the inherent limitations of using a video game as the source material movie are once again made all too clear in this schlocky horror/action 

hybrid . 
bad company . bad movie . just plain bad . 
it's not only dull because we've seen [eddie] murphy do the genial-rogue shtick to death , but because the plot is equally hackneyed . 
avary's film never quite emerges from the shadow of ellis' book . 
a poorly scripted , preachy fable that forgets about unfolding a coherent , believable story in its zeal to spread propaganda . 
while it is interesting to witness the conflict from the palestinian side , longley's film lacks balance . . . and fails to put the struggle 

into meaningful historical context . 
woo has as much right to make a huge action sequence as any director , but how long will filmmakers copy the " saving private ryan " battle 

scenes before realizing steven spielberg got it right the first time ? 
it's sincere to a fault , but , unfortunately , not very compelling or much fun . 
 . . . jones , despite a definitely distinctive screen presence , just isn't able to muster for a movie that , its title notwithstanding , 

should have been a lot nastier if it wanted to fully capitalize on its lead's specific gifts . 
this follow-up seems so similar to the 1953 disney classic that it makes one long for a geriatric peter . 
why , you may ask , why should you buy the movie milk when the tv cow is free ? there's no good answer to that one . 
this slow-moving swedish film offers not even a hint of joy , preferring to focus on the humiliation of martin as he defecates in bed and 

urinates on the plants at his own birthday party . 
a muddled limp biscuit of a movie , a vampire soap opera that doesn't make much sense even on its own terms . 
there's the plot , and a maddeningly insistent and repetitive piano score that made me want to scream . 
this is a movie so insecure about its capacity to excite that it churns up not one but two flagrantly fake thunderstorms to underscore the 

action . 
this is amusing for about three minutes . 
klein , charming in comedies like american pie and dead-on in election , delivers one of the saddest action hero performances ever witnessed . 
it's rare to see a movie that takes such a speedy swan dive from " promising " to " interesting " to " familiar " before landing squarely on " 

stupid " . 
this is the sort of low-grade dreck that usually goes straight to video --with a lousy script , inept direction , pathetic acting , poorly 

dubbed dialogue and murky cinematography , complete with visible boom mikes . 
the direction occasionally rises to the level of marginal competence , but for most of the film it is hard to tell who is chasing who or why . 
there are few things more frustrating to a film buff than seeing an otherwise good movie marred beyond redemption by a disastrous ending . 
it won't harm anyone , but neither can i think of a very good reason to rush right out and see it . after all , it'll probably be in video 

stores by christmas , and it might just be better suited to a night in the living room than a night at the movies . 
looks more like a travel-agency video targeted at people who like to ride bikes topless and roll in the mud than a worthwhile glimpse of 

independent-community guiding lights . 
given too much time to consider the looseness of the piece , the picture begins to resemble the shapeless , grasping actors' workshop that it 

is . 
they kept much of the plot but jettisoned the stuff that would make this a moving experience for people who haven't read the book . 
just because a walk to remember is shrewd enough to activate girlish tear ducts doesn't mean it's good enough for our girls . 
[carvey's] characters are both overplayed and exaggerated , but then again , subtlety has never been his trademark . 
it's mildly interesting to ponder the peculiar american style of justice that plays out here , but it's so muddled and derivative that few will 

bother thinking it all through . 
this dreadfully earnest inversion of the concubine love triangle eschews the previous film's historical panorama and roiling pathos for bug-

eyed mugging and gay-niche condescension . 
brown's saga , like many before his , makes for snappy prose but a stumblebum of a movie . 
the boys' sparring , like the succession of blows dumped on guei , wears down the story's more cerebral , and likable , plot elements . 
the script by vincent r . nebrida . . . tries to cram too many ingredients into one small pot . 
the story is so light and sugary that were it a macy's thanksgiving day parade balloon , extra heavy-duty ropes would be needed to keep it from 

floating away . 
oedekerk mugs mercilessly , and the genuinely funny jokes are few and far between . 
since dahmer resorts to standard slasher flick thrills when it should be most in the mind of the killer , it misses a major opportunity to be 

truly revelatory about his psyche . 
only those most addicted to film violence in all its forms will find anything here to appreciate . 
cold and scattered , minority report commands interest almost solely as an exercise in gorgeous visuals . that's not vintage spielberg and that 

, finally , is minimally satisfying . 
every now and again , a movie comes along to remind us of how very bad a motion picture can truly be . frank mcklusky c . i . is that movie ! 
it's not difficult to spot the culprit early-on in this predictable thriller . 
[a] soulless , stupid sequel . . . 
 . . . a mostly boring affair with a confusing sudden finale that's likely to irk viewers . 
the trappings of i spy are so familiar you might as well be watching a rerun . 
what starts off as a potentially incredibly twisting mystery becomes simply a monster chase film . 
in the wake of saving private ryan , black hawk down and we were soldiers , you are likely to be as heartily sick of mayhem as cage's war-weary 

marine . 
it is messy , uncouth , incomprehensible , vicious and absurd . 
really does feel like a short stretched out to feature length . 
hampered -- no , paralyzed -- by a self-indulgent script . . . that aims for poetry and ends up sounding like satire . 
cheap , vulgar dialogue and a plot that crawls along at a snail's pace . 
and if you appreciate the one-sided theme to lawrence's over-indulgent tirade , then knock yourself out and enjoy the big screen postcard that 

is a self-glorified martin lawrence lovefest . if you are willing to do this , then you so crazy ! 
directed without the expected flair or imagination by hong kong master john woo , windtalkers airs just about every cliche in the war movie 

compendium across its indulgent two-hour-and-fifteen-minute length . 
it's a very tasteful rock and roll movie . you could put it on a coffee table anywhere . 
the movie is loaded with good intentions , but in his zeal to squeeze the action and our emotions into the all-too-familiar dramatic arc of the 

holocaust escape story , minac drains his movie of all individuality . 
an infuriating film . just when you think you are making sense of it , something happens that tells you there is no sense . 
the entire movie is so formulaic and forgettable that it's hardly over before it begins to fade from memory . 
the setting turns out to be more interesting than any of the character dramas , which never reach satisfying conclusions . 
as an entertainment destination for the general public , kung pow sets a new benchmark for lameness . 
this misty-eyed southern nostalgia piece , in treading the line between sappy and sanguine , winds up mired in tear-drenched quicksand . 
as pure over-the-top trash , any john waters movie has it beat by a country mile . 
wendigo wants to be a monster movie for the art-house crowd , but it falls into the trap of pretention almost every time . 
bigelow offers some flashy twists and turns that occasionally fortify this turgid fable . but for the most part , the weight of water comes off 

as a two-way time-switching myopic mystery that stalls in its lackluster gear of emotional blandness . 
this film biggest problem ? no laughs . 
less-than-compelling documentary of a yiddish theater clan . 
that the chuck norris " grenade gag " occurs about 7 times during windtalkers is a good indication of how serious-minded the film is . 
viewers are asked so often to suspend belief that were it not for holm's performance , the film would be a total washout . 
it's not exactly worth the bucks to expend the full price for a date , but when it comes out on video , it's well worth a rental . 
i can't begin to tell you how tedious , how resolutely unamusing , how thoroughly unrewarding all of this is , and what a reckless squandering 

of four fine acting talents . . . 
everybody loves a david and goliath story , and this one is told almost entirely from david's point of view . 
throw smoochy from the train ! 
eventually , they will have a showdown , but , by then , your senses are as mushy as peas and you don't care who fires the winning shot . 
irwin and his director never come up with an adequate reason why we should pay money for what we can get on television for free . 
a light , engaging comedy that fumbles away almost all of its accumulated enjoyment with a crucial third act miscalculation . 
cedar somewhat defuses this provocative theme by submerging it in a hoary love triangle . 
to paraphrase a line from another dickens' novel , nicholas nickleby is too much like a fragment of an underdone potato . 
the actresses may have worked up a back story for the women they portray so convincingly , but viewers don't get enough of that background for 

the characters to be involving as individuals rather than types . 
the result , however well-intentioned , is ironically just the sort of disposable , kitchen-sink homage that illustrates why the whole is so 

often less than the sum of its parts in today's hollywood . 
an extremely unpleasant film . 
a movie just for friday fans , critics be damned . if you already like this sort of thing , this is that sort of thing all over again . 
a sincere but dramatically conflicted gay coming-of-age tale . 
wait for it to hit cable . 
ultimately feels like just one more in the long line of films this year about the business of making movies . 
a high-minded snoozer . 
nothing but one relentlessly depressing situation after another for its entire running time , something that you could easily be dealing with 

right now in your lives . 
77 minutes of pokemon may not last 4ever , it just seems like it does . my only wish is that celebi could take me back to a time before i saw 

this movie and i could just skip it . 
the one not-so-small problem with expecting is that the entire exercise has no real point . 
a movie you observe , rather than one you enter into . 
[at least] moore is a real charmer . 
john carlen's script is full of unhappy , two-dimensional characters who are anything but compelling . 
labute can't avoid a fatal mistake in the modern era : he's changed the male academic from a lower-class brit to an american , a choice that 

upsets the novel's exquisite balance and shreds the fabric of the film . 
the notion of deleting emotion from people , even in an advanced prozac nation , is so insanely dysfunctional that the rampantly designed 

equilibrium becomes a concept doofus . 
stale first act , scrooge story , blatant product placement , some very good comedic songs , strong finish , dumb fart jokes . 
unsurprisingly , the way this all works out makes the women look more like stereotypical caretakers and moral teachers , instead of serious 

athletes . 
a film that loses sight of its own story . 
adam sandler's eight crazy nights grows on you -- like a rash . 
the big-screen scooby makes the silly original cartoon seem smart and well-crafted in comparison . 
few of the increasingly far-fetched events that first-time writer-director neil burger follows up with are terribly convincing , which is a 

pity , considering barry's terrific performance . 
gets better after foster leaves that little room . 
the movie is as padded as allen's jelly belly . 
resident evil isn't a product of its cinematic predecessors so much as an mtv , sugar hysteria , and playstation cocktail . 
a rather average action film that benefits from several funny moments supplied by epps . 
 . . . unspeakably , unbearably dull , featuring reams of flatly delivered dialogue and a heroine who comes across as both shallow and dim-

witted . 
resembles a soft porn brian de palma pastiche . 
bluto blutarsky , we miss you . 
innocuous enough to make even jean-claude van damme look good . 
it's a glorified sitcom , and a long , unfunny one at that . 
woody allen can write and deliver a one liner as well as anybody . but i had a lot of problems with this movie . 
execrable . 
devoid of any of the qualities that made the first film so special . 
all movie long , city by the sea swings from one approach to the other , but in the end , it stays in formula -- which is a waste of de niro , 

mcdormand and the other good actors in the cast . 
plotless collection of moronic stunts is by far the worst movie of the year . 
however sincere it may be , the rising place never quite justifies its own existence . 
parker updates the setting in an attempt to make the film relevant today , without fully understanding what it was that made the story relevant 

in the first place . 
it's sort of a 21st century morality play with a latino hip hop beat . but the second half of the movie really goes downhill . 
paxton's uneven directorial debut fails to unlock the full potential of what is in many ways a fresh and dramatically substantial spin on the 

genre . 
the script becomes lifeless and falls apart like a cheap lawn chair . 
the script falls back on too many tried-and-true shenanigans that hardly distinguish it from the next teen comedy . 
the film starts promisingly , but the ending is all too predictable and far too cliched to really work . 
let's issue a moratorium , effective immediately , on treacly films about inspirational prep-school professors and the children they so 

heartwarmingly motivate . 
it's the element of condescension , as the filmmakers look down on their working-class subjects from their lofty perch , that finally makes sex 

with strangers , which opens today in the new york metropolitan area , so distasteful . 
alternately frustrating and rewarding . 
it's impossible to even categorize this as a smutty guilty pleasure . 
despite suffering a sense-of-humour failure , the man who wrote rocky does not deserve to go down with a ship as leaky as this . 
swinging , the film makes it seem , is not a hobby that attracts the young and fit . or intelligent . 
the most memorable moment was when green threw medical equipment at a window ; not because it was particularly funny , but because i had a 

serious urge to grab the old lady at the end of my aisle's walker and toss it at the screen in frustration . 
see clockstoppers if you have nothing better to do with 94 minutes . but be warned , you too may feel time has decided to stand still . or that 

the battery on your watch has died . 
suffers from over-familiarity since hit-hungry british filmmakers have strip-mined the monty formula mercilessly since 1997 . 
there are enough throwaway references to faith and rainbows to plant smile-button faces on that segment of the populace that made a walk to 

remember a niche hit . 
yes , i have given this movie a rating of zero . but fans of the show should not consider this a diss . consider it 'perfection . '
the cumulative effect of the movie is repulsive and depressing . 
children and adults enamored of all things pokemon won't be disappointed . 
i don't even care that there's no plot in this antonio banderas-lucy liu faceoff . it's still terrible ! 
children of the century , though well dressed and well made , ultimately falls prey to the contradiction that afflicts so many movies about 

writers . 
it's not so much a movie as a joint promotion for the national basketball association and teenaged rap and adolescent poster-boy lil' bow wow . 
peralta's mythmaking could have used some informed , adult hindsight . 
amazingly dopey . 
a close-to-solid espionage thriller with the misfortune of being released a few decades too late . 
cloaks a familiar anti-feminist equation ( career - kids = misery ) in tiresome romantic-comedy duds . 
the good girl is a film in which the talent is undeniable but the results are underwhelming . 
just a collection of this and that -- whatever fills time -- with no unified whole . 
the animation and game phenomenon that peaked about three years ago is actually dying a slow death , if the poor quality of pokemon 4 ever is 

any indication . 
only about as sexy and dangerous as an actress in a role that reminds at every turn of elizabeth berkley's flopping dolphin-gasm . 
kids who are into this thornberry stuff will probably be in wedgie heaven . anyone else who may , for whatever reason , be thinking about going 

to see this movie is hereby given fair warning . 
mr . soderbergh's direction and visual style struck me as unusually and unimpressively fussy and pretentious . 
do you say " hi " to your lover when you wake up in the morning ? 
it makes me feel weird / thinking about all the bad things in the world / like puppies with broken legs / and butterflies that die / and movies 

starring pop queens
director tom dey demonstrated a knack for mixing action and idiosyncratic humor in his charming 2000 debut shanghai noon , but showtime's 

uninspired send-up of tv cop show cliches mostly leaves him shooting blanks . 
banal and predictable . 
'yes , that's right : it's forrest gump , angel of death . '
a wildly erratic drama with sequences that make you wince in embarrassment and others , thanks to the actors , that are quite touching . 
while easier to sit through than most of jaglom's self-conscious and gratingly irritating films , it's still tainted by cliches , painful 

improbability and murky points . 
about as enjoyable , i would imagine , as searching for a quarter in a giant pile of elephant feces . . . positively dreadful . 
a generic international version of a typical american horror film . 
 . . . while certainly clever in spots , this too-long , spoofy update of shakespeare's macbeth doesn't sustain a high enough level of 

invention . 
crikey indeed . 
lucas has in fact come closer than anyone could desire to the cheap , graceless , hackneyed sci-fi serials of the '30s and '40s . 
there's a lot of good material here , but there's also a lot of redundancy and unsuccessful crudeness accompanying it . 
absurdities and clichÈs accumulate like lint in a fat man's navel . 
if you think it's a riot to see rob schneider in a young woman's clothes , then you'll enjoy the hot chick . 
the sheer dumbness of the plot ( other than its one good idea ) and the movie's inescapable air of sleaziness get you down . 
strangely comes off as a kingdom more mild than wild . 
the next big thing's not-so-big ( and not-so-hot ) directorial debut . 
yet another iteration of what's become one of the movies' creepiest conventions , in which the developmentally disabled are portrayed with 

almost supernatural powers to humble , teach and ultimately redeem their mentally " superior " friends , family . . . 
bond-inspired ? certainly . likely to have decades of life as a classic movie franchise ? let's hope not . 
this flat run at a hip-hop tootsie is so poorly paced you could fit all of pootie tang in between its punchlines . 
davis has energy , but she doesn't bother to make her heroine's book sound convincing , the gender-war ideas original , or the comic scenes fly 

. 
surprisingly , considering that baird is a former film editor , the movie is rather choppy . 
none of this is very original , and it isn't particularly funny . 
 . . . a bland murder-on-campus yawner . 
a humorless journey into a philosophical void . 
these two are generating about as much chemistry as an iraqi factory poised to receive a un inspector . 
respons·vel direto pelo fracasso 'artÌstico' de doce lar , o roteirista c . jay cox n?o consegue sequer aproveitar os pouquÌssimos momentos em 

que escapa da mediocridade . 
just as the lousy tarantino imitations have subsided , here comes the first lousy guy ritchie imitation . 
a passable romantic comedy , in need of another couple of passes through the word processor . 
the movie attempts to mine laughs from a genre -- the gangster/crime comedy -- that wore out its welcome with audiences several years ago , and 

its cutesy reliance on movie-specific cliches isn't exactly endearing . 
shows holmes has the screen presence to become a major-league leading lady , ( but ) the movie itself is an underachiever , a psychological 

mystery that takes its sweet time building to a climax that's scarcely a surprise by the time it arrives . 
in the book-on-tape market , the film of " the kid stays in the picture " would be an abridged edition
ultimately . . . the movie is too heady for children , and too preachy for adults . 
it's just a little too self-satisfied . 
clever but not especially compelling . 
mckay seems embarrassed by his own invention and tries to rush through the intermediary passages , apparently hoping that the audience will not 

notice the glaring triteness of the plot device he has put in service . 
a piece of mildly entertaining , inoffensive fluff that drifts aimlessly for 90 minutes before lodging in the cracks of that ever-growing 

category : unembarrassing but unmemorable . 
labute was more fun when his characters were torturing each other psychologically and talking about their genitals in public . 
the movie weighs no more than a glass of flat champagne . 
brisk hack job . 
the problem with antwone fisher is that it has a screenplay written by antwone fisher based on the book by antwone fisher . 
alarms for duvall's throbbing sincerity and his elderly propensity for patting people while he talks . 
Öthe maudlin way its story unfolds suggests a director fighting against the urge to sensationalize his material . 
what little grace [rifkin's] tale of precarious skid-row dignity achieves is pushed into the margins by predictable plotting and tiresome 

histrionics . 
tries to work in the same vein as the brilliance of animal house but instead comes closer to the failure of the third revenge of the nerds 

sequel . 
unfortunately , kapur modernizes a . e . w . mason's story to suit the sensibilities of a young american , a decision that plucks " the four 

feathers " bare . 
 . . . what a banal bore the preachy circuit turns out to be
falsehoods pile up , undermining the movie's reality and stifling its creator's comic voice . 
a mechanical action-comedy whose seeming purpose is to market the charismatic jackie chan to even younger audiences . 
one of the most incoherent features in recent memory . 
low rent from frame one . 
eight legged freaks ? no big hairy deal . 
the issues are presented in such a lousy way , complete with some of the year's ( unintentionally ) funniest moments , that it's impossible to 

care . 
laggard drama wending its way to an uninspired philosophical epiphany . 
the respective charms of sandra bullock and hugh grant have worn threadbare . 
'this movie sucks . '
none of this so-called satire has any sting to it , as if woody is afraid of biting the hand that has finally , to some extent , warmed up to 

him . 
 . . . bibbidy-bobbidi-bland . 
a few nonbelievers may rethink their attitudes when they see the joy the characters take in this creed , but skeptics aren't likely to enter 

the theater . 
bad in such a bizarre way that it's almost worth seeing , if only to witness the crazy confluence of purpose and taste . 
there's more repetition than creativity throughout the movie . 
hugh grant's act is so consuming that sometimes it's difficult to tell who the other actors in the movie are . 
although the sequel has all the outward elements of the original , the first film's lovely flakiness is gone , replaced by the forced funniness 

found in the dullest kiddie flicks . 
i've had more interesting -- and , dare i say , thematically complex -- bowel movements than this long-on-the-shelf , point-and-shoot exercise 

in gimmicky crime drama . 
what we get . . . is caddyshack crossed with the loyal order of raccoons . 
the jokes are flat , and the action looks fake . 
when a movie asks you to feel sorry for mick jagger's sex life , it already has one strike against it . 
there are now two signs that m . night shyamalan's debut feature sucked up all he has to give to the mystic genres of cinema : unbreakable and 

signs . 
 . . . hokey art house pretension . 
 . . . a weak and ineffective ghost story without a conclusion or pay off . 
gussied up with so many distracting special effects and visual party tricks that it's not clear whether we're supposed to shriek or laugh . 
plodding , poorly written , murky and weakly acted , the picture feels as if everyone making it lost their movie mojo . 
this is a fudged opportunity of gigantic proportions -- a lunar mission with no signs of life . 
a baffling subplot involving smuggling drugs inside danish cows falls flat , and if you're going to alter the bard's ending , you'd better have 

a good alternative . 
soderbergh seems capable only of delivering artfully lighted , earnest inquiries that lack the kind of genuine depth that would make them 

redeemable . 
the only thing that distinguishes a randall wallace film from any other is the fact that there is nothing distinguishing in a randall wallace 

film . 
silly stuff , all mixed up together like a term paper from a kid who can't quite distinguish one sci-fi work from another . 
there is so much plodding sensitivity . 
the town has kind of an authentic feel , but each one of these people stand out and everybody else is in the background and it just seems 

manufactured to me and artificial . 
 . . . too sappy for its own good . 
circuit queens won't learn a thing , they'll be too busy cursing the film's strategically placed white sheets . 
as an actress , madonna is one helluva singer . as the mediterranean sparkles , 'swept away' sinks . 
every so often a film comes along that is so insanely stupid , so awful in so many ways that watching it leaves you giddy . half past dead is 

just such an achievement . 
expanded to 65 minutes for theatrical release , it still feels somewhat unfinished . 
it all looks and plays like a $40 million version of a game you're more likely to enjoy on a computer . 
[javier bardem is] one of the few reasons to watch the film , which director gerardo vera has drenched in swoony music and fever-pitched 

melodrama . 
feels shrill , simple and soapy . 
adults , other than the parents . . . will be hard pressed to succumb to the call of the wild . 
brady achieves the remarkable feat of squandering a topnotch foursome of actors . . . by shoving them into every clichÈd white-trash situation 

imaginable . 
in the name of an allegedly inspiring and easily marketable flick , the emperor's club turns a blind eye to the very history it pretends to 

teach . 
no amount of blood and disintegrating vampire cadavers can obscure this movie's lack of ideas . 
a direct-to-void release , heading nowhere . 
typical animÈ , with cheapo animation ( like saturday morning tv in the '60s ) , a complex sword-and-sorcery plot and characters who all have 

big round eyes and japanese names . 
below is well below expectations . 
at no point during k-19 : the widowmaker did this viewer feel enveloped in a story that , though meant to be universal in its themes of loyalty 

, courage and dedication to a common goal , never seems to leave the lot . 
 . . . standard guns versus martial arts cliche with little new added . 
empire can't make up its mind whether it wants to be a gangster flick or an art film . it doesn't work as either . 
given the fact that virtually no one is bound to show up at theatres for it , the project should have been made for the tube . 
possession is in the end an honorable , interesting failure . it falls far short of poetry , but it's not bad prose . 
jonathan parker's bartleby should have been the be-all-end-all of the modern-office anomie films . 
there may have been a good film in " trouble every day , " but it is not what is on the screen . 
unfortunately , carvey's rubber-face routine is no match for the insipid script he has crafted with harris goldberg . 
viewed as a comedy , a romance , a fairy tale , or a drama , there's nothing remotely triumphant about this motion picture . 
there's something unintentionally comic in the film's drumbeat about authenticity , given the stale plot and pornographic way the film revels 

in swank apartments , clothes and parties . 
the master of disguise is funny--not " ha ha " funny , " dead circus performer " funny . and for all the wrong reasons besides . 
a zippy 96 minutes of mediocre special effects , hoary dialogue , fluxing accents , and -- worst of all -- silly-looking morlocks . 
a 75-minute sample of puerile rubbish that is listless , witless , and devoid of anything resembling humor . 
you leave feeling like you've endured a long workout without your pulse ever racing . 
the waterlogged script plumbs uncharted depths of stupidity , incoherence and sub-sophomoric sexual banter . 
with mcconaughey in an entirely irony-free zone and bale reduced mainly to batting his sensitive eyelids , there's not enough intelligence , 

wit or innovation on the screen to attract and sustain an older crowd . 
it's the type of stunt the academy loves : a powerful political message stuffed into an otherwise mediocre film . 
in theory , a middle-aged romance pairing clayburgh and tambor sounds promising , but in practice it's something else altogether -- clownish 

and offensive and nothing at all like real life . 
so mind-numbingly awful that you hope britney won't do it one more time , as far as movies are concerned . 
the images are usually abbreviated in favor of mushy obviousness and telegraphed pathos , particularly where whitaker's misfit artist is 

concerned . 
if welles was unhappy at the prospect of the human race splitting in two , he probably wouldn't be too crazy with his great-grandson's movie 

splitting up in pretty much the same way . 
sets animation back 30 years , musicals back 40 years and judaism back at least 50 . 
weirdly , broomfield has compelling new material but he doesn't unveil it until the end , after endless scenes of him wheedling reluctant 

witnesses and pointing his camera through the smeared windshield of his rental car . 
might best be enjoyed as a daytime soaper . 
eventually arrives at its heart , as simple self-reflection meditation . 
a showcase for both the scenic splendor of the mountains and for legendary actor michel serrault , the film is less successful on other levels 

. 
boy oh boy , it's a howler . 
a few pieces of the film buzz and whir ; very little of it actually clicks . the thing just never gets off the ground . 
 . . . contains very few laughs and even less surprises . 
the actors must indeed be good to recite some of this laughable dialogue with a straight face . 
most of the storylines feel like time fillers between surf shots . the movie isn't horrible , but you can see mediocre cresting on the next 

wave . 
however stale the material , lawrence's delivery remains perfect ; his great gift is that he can actually trick you into thinking some of this 

worn-out , pandering palaver is actually funny . 
there's nothing remotely topical or sexy here . 
the tuxedo wasn't just bad ; it was , as my friend david cross would call it , 'hungry-man portions of bad' . 
blue crush is so prolonged and boring it isn't even close to being the barn-burningly bad movie it promised it would be . 
the sequel plays out like a flimsy excuse to give blade fans another look at wesley snipes' iconic hero doing battle with dozens of bad guys -- 

at once . 
while van wilder may not be the worst national lampoon film , it's far from being this generation's animal house . 
so devoid of pleasure or sensuality that it cannot even be dubbed hedonistic . 
reeks of rot and hack work from start to finish . 
an exhausting family drama about a porcelain empire and just as hard a flick as its subject matter . 
woody allen has really found his groove these days . the problem is that it is one that allows him to churn out one mediocre movie after 

another . 
the bland outweighs the nifty , and cletis tout never becomes the clever crime comedy it thinks it is . 
it's such a mechanical endeavor [that] it never bothers to question why somebody might devote time to see it . 
the art direction is often exquisite , and the anthropomorphic animal characters are beautifully realized through clever makeup design , 

leaving one to hope that the eventual dvd release will offer subtitles and the original italian-language soundtrack . 
 if the predictability of bland comfort food appeals to you , then the film is a pleasant enough dish . 
ultimately , in the history of the academy , people may be wondering what all that jazz was about " chicago " in 2002 . zellweger's whiny 

pouty-lipped poof faced and spindly attempt at playing an ingenue makes her nomination as best actress even more of a an a
a seriously bad film with seriously warped logic by writer-director kurt wimmer at the screenplay level . 
a pleasant and engaging enough sit , but in trying to have the best of both worlds it ends up falling short as a whole . 
its plot and animation offer daytime tv serviceability , but little more . 
a tired , unimaginative and derivative variation of that already-shallow genre . 
human nature , in short , isn't nearly as funny as it thinks it is ; neither is it as smart . 
a film with a great premise but only a great premise . 
instead of building to a laugh riot we are left with a handful of disparate funny moments of no real consequence . 
kirshner and monroe seem to be in a contest to see who can out-bad-act the other . ( kirshner wins , but it's close . ) 
a lame romantic comedy about an unsympathetic character and someone who would not likely be so stupid as to get involved with her . 
what started out as a taut contest of wills between bacon and theron , deteriorates into a protracted and borderline silly chase sequence . 
[sam's] self-flagellation is more depressing than entertaining . 
an ugly , pointless , stupid movie . 
simply put , there should have been a more compelling excuse to pair susan sarandon and goldie hawn . 
the master of disguise represents adam sandler's latest attempt to dumb down the universe . 
this is an ungainly movie , ill-fitting , with its elbows sticking out where the knees should be . 
too silly to take seriously . 
obvious
the inevitable double- and triple-crosses arise , but the only drama is in waiting to hear how john malkovich's reedy consigliere will 

pronounce his next line . 
everything's serious , poetic , earnest and -- sadly -- dull . 
i like it . no , i hate it . no , i love it . . . hell , i dunno . 
this mess of a movie is nothing short of a travesty of a transvestite comedy . 
it's clotted with heavy-handed symbolism , dime-store psychology and endless scenic shots that make 105 minutes seem twice as long . 
a fifty car pileup of cliches . 
it's a stale , overused cocktail using the same olives since 1962 as garnish . not only is entry number twenty the worst of the brosnan bunch , 

it's one of the worst of the entire franchise . 
what ultimately makes windtalkers a disappointment is the superficial way it deals with its story . 
as an actor's showcase , hart's war has much to recommend it , even if the top-billed willis is not the most impressive player . as a story of 

dramatic enlightenment , the screenplay by billy ray and terry george leaves something to be desired . 
a non-britney person might survive a screening with little harm done , except maybe for the last 15 minutes , which are as maudlin as any 

after-school special you can imagine . 
it's not hateful . it's simply stupid , irrelevant and deeply , truly , bottomlessly cynical . 
possibly not since grumpy old men have i heard a film so solidly connect with one demographic while striking out with another . 
the drama was so uninspiring that even a story immersed in love , lust , and sin couldn't keep my attention . 
a rather tired exercise in nostalgia . 
the misery of these people becomes just another voyeuristic spectacle , to be consumed and forgotten . 
some body often looks like an episode of the tv show blind date , only less technically proficient and without the pop-up comments . 
bad company has one of the most moronic screenplays of the year , full of holes that will be obvious even to those who aren't looking for them 

. 
predecessors the mummy and the mummy returns stand as intellectual masterpieces next to the scorpion king . 
a markedly inactive film , city is conversational bordering on confessional . 
while kids will probably eat the whole thing up , most adults will be way ahead of the plot . 
its one-sidedness . . . flirts with propaganda . 
despite an impressive roster of stars and direction from kathryn bigelow , the weight of water is oppressively heavy . 
we've liked klein's other work but rollerball left us cold . 
they were afraid to show this movie to reviewers before its opening , afraid of the bad reviews they thought they'd earn . they were right . 
it would be churlish to begrudge anyone for receiving whatever consolation that can be found in dragonfly , yet it is impossible to find the 

film anything but appalling , shamelessly manipulative and contrived , and totally lacking in conviction . 
offers no new insight on the matter , nor do its characters exactly spring to life . 
nohe has made a decent 'intro' documentary , but he feels like a spectator and not a participant . 
apparently designed as a reverie about memory and regret , but the only thing you'll regret is remembering the experience of sitting through it 

. 
a 94-minute travesty of unparalleled proportions , writer-director parker seems to go out of his way to turn the legendary wit's classic 

mistaken identity farce into brutally labored and unfunny hokum . 
guy gets girl , guy loses girl , audience falls asleep . 
too ordinary to restore [harmon] to prominence , despite some creepy scenes that evoke childish night terrors , and a praiseworthy attempt to 

generate suspense rather than gross out the audience . 
stirs potentially enticing ingredients into an uneasy blend of ghost and close encounters of the third kind . 
the weird thing about the santa clause 2 , purportedly a children's movie , is that there is nothing in it to engage children emotionally . 
it's pretentious in a way that verges on the amateurish . 
contains the humor , characterization , poignancy , and intelligence of a bad sitcom . 
it doesn't matter that the film is less than 90 minutes . it still feels like a prison stretch . 
partly a schmaltzy , by-the-numbers romantic comedy , partly a shallow rumination on the emptiness of success -- and entirely soulless . 
ong chooses to present ah na's life as a slight , weightless fairy tale , whose most unpleasant details seem to melt away in the face of the 

character's blank-faced optimism . 
the overall feel is not unlike watching a glorified episode of " 7th heaven . " 
just a kiss is a just a waste . 
 . . . this isn't even a movie we can enjoy as mild escapism ; it is one in which fear and frustration are provoked to intolerable levels . 
frankly , it's kind of insulting , both to men and women . and it's not that funny -- which is just generally insulting . 
as if drop dead gorgeous wasn't enough , this equally derisive clunker is fixated on the spectacle of small-town competition . 
a wretched movie that reduces the second world war to one man's quest to find an old flame . 
this is a remake by the numbers , linking a halfwit plot to a series of standup routines in which wilson and murphy show how funny they could 

have been in a more ambitious movie . 
it's better than mid-range steven seagal , but not as sharp as jet li on rollerblades . 
no dia em que aceitou dirigir esta continua??o , harold ramis deve ter saÌdo da cama com o pÈ esquerdo . e aqueles que decidiram assistir a 

este filme tambÈm . 
there's a reason why halftime is only fifteen minutes long . 
the talk-heavy film plays like one of robert altman's lesser works . 
as happily glib and vicious as its characters . 
one of those films that started with a great premise and then just fell apart . 
 . . . a pretentious mess . . . 
no better or worse than 'truth or consequences , n . m . ' or any other interchangeable actioner with imbecilic mafia toolbags botching a 

routine assignment in a western backwater . 
a sour attempt at making a farrelly brothers-style , down-and-dirty laugher for the female set . 
[macdowell] ventures beyond her abilities several times here and reveals how bad an actress she is . 
i can imagine this movie as a b&w british comedy , circa 1960 , with peter sellers , kenneth williams , et al . , but at this time , with this 

cast , this movie is hopeless . 
talky , artificial and opaque . . . an interesting technical exercise , but a tedious picture . 
kurys never shows why , of all the period's volatile romantic lives , sand and musset are worth particular attention . 
almost nothing else -- raunchy and graphic as it may be in presentation -- is one-sided , outwardly sexist or mean-spirited . and in a sense , 

that's a liability . 
it's easy to love robin tunney -- she's pretty and she can act -- but it gets harder and harder to understand her choices . 
if you've got a house full of tots -- don't worry , this will be on video long before they grow up and you can wait till then . 
the new film of anton chekhov's the cherry orchard puts the 'ick' in 'classic . '
has an uppity musical beat that you can dance to , but its energy can't compare to the wit , humor and snappy dialogue of the original . if i 

want music , i'll buy the soundtrack . if i want a real movie , i'll buy the criterion dvd . 
an unremarkable , modern action/comedy buddy movie whose only nod to nostalgia is in the title . 
has all the right elements but completely fails to gel together . 
writer-director stephen gaghan has made the near-fatal mistake of being what the english call 'too clever by half . '
seagal ran out of movies years ago , and this is just the proof . 
the movie is so contrived , nonsensical and formulaic that , come to think of it , the day-old shelf would be a more appropriate location to 

store it . 
an awkwardly garish showcase that diverges from anything remotely probing or penetrating . 
the name says it all . jackass is a vulgar and cheap-looking version of candid camera staged for the marquis de sade set . 
children , christian or otherwise , deserve to hear the full story of jonah's despair -- in all its agonizing , catch-22 glory -- even if they 

spend years trying to comprehend it . 
pleasant but not more than recycled jock piffle . 
 . . . the kind of movie you see because the theater has air conditioning . 
with zoe clarke-williams's lackluster thriller " new best friend " , who needs enemies ? just another generic drama that has nothing going for 

it other than its exploitive array of obligatory cheap thrills . 
hip-hop prison thriller of stupefying absurdity . 
an uneven mix of dark satire and childhood awakening . 
aside from showing us in explicit detail how difficult it is to win over the two-drink-minimum crowd , there's little to be learned from 

watching 'comedian'
a perfectly acceptable , perfectly bland , competently acted but by no means scary horror movie . 
the film would have been more enjoyable had the balance shifted in favor of water-bound action over the land-based 'drama , ' but the emphasis 

on the latter leaves blue crush waterlogged . 
the problem is the needlessly poor quality of its archival prints and film footage . the images lack contrast , are murky and are frequently 

too dark to be decipherable . 
like a soft drink that's been sitting open too long : it's too much syrup and not enough fizz . 
as the movie dragged on , i thought i heard a mysterious voice , and felt myself powerfully drawn toward the light -- the light of the exit 

sign . i have returned from the beyond to warn you : this movie is 90 minutes long , and life is too short . 
there are some fairly unsettling scenes , but they never succeed in really rattling the viewer . 
the emperor's club is one of those films that possesses all the good intentions in the world , but . . . 
in the end , the weight of water comes to resemble the kind of soft-core twaddle you'd expect to see on showtime's 'red shoe diaries . '
a straight-ahead thriller that never rises above superficiality . 
glizty but formulaic and silly . . . cagney's 'top of the world' has been replaced by the bottom of the barrel . 
the re- enactments , however fascinating they may be as history , are too crude to serve the work especially well . 
eisenstein lacks considerable brio for a film about one of cinema's directorial giants . 
is anyone else out there getting tired of the whole slo-mo , double-pistoled , ballistic-pyrotechnic hong kong action aesthetic ? 
once again , director chris columbus takes a hat-in-hand approach to rowling that stifles creativity and allows the film to drag on for nearly 

three hours . 
serving sara is little more than a mall movie designed to kill time . 
too smart to ignore but a little too smugly superior to like , this could be a movie that ends up slapping its target audience in the face by 

shooting itself in the foot . 
a well-made but emotionally scattered film whose hero gives his heart only to the dog . 
the most repugnant adaptation of a classic text since roland joffÈ and demi moore's the scarlet letter . 
the isolated moments of creative insanity finally are lost in the thin soup of canned humor . 
as a movie , it never seems fresh and vital . it never plays as dramatic even when dramatic things happen to people . it labours as 

storytelling . 
the adventures of pluto nash is a whole lot of nada . 
a really good premise is frittered away in middle-of-the-road blandness . 
lawrence should stick to his day job . he's a better actor than a standup comedian . 
despite the fact that this film wasn't as bad as i thought it was going to be , it's still not a good movie
a well made indieflick in need of some trims and a more chemistry between its stars . 
i never thought i'd say this , but i'd much rather watch teens poking their genitals into fruit pies ! 
a film neither bitter nor sweet , neither romantic nor comedic , neither warm nor fuzzy . 
tiresomely derivative and hammily acted . 
we never truly come to care about the main characters and whether or not they'll wind up together , and michele's spiritual quest is neither 

amusing nor dramatic enough to sustain interest . 
the plot grows thin soon , and you find yourself praying for a quick resolution . 
too bad maggio couldn't come up with a better script . 
much of the cast is stiff or just plain bad . 
rice is too pedestrian a filmmaker to bring any edge or personality to the rising place that would set it apart from other deep south stories . 
at best , cletis tout might inspire a trip to the video store -- in search of a better movie experience . 
witless , pointless , tasteless and idiotic . 
not really a thriller so much as a movie for teens to laugh , groan and hiss at . 
as plain and pedestrian as catsup--
an improvement on the feeble examples of big-screen poke-mania that have preceded it . 
i know we're not supposed to take it seriously , but i can't shake the thought that undercover brother missed an opportunity to strongly 

present some profound social commentary . 
your stomach for heaven depends largely on your appetite for canned corn . 
a picture as erratic as its central character . 
whatever satire lucky break was aiming for , it certainly got lost in the " soon-to-be-forgettable " section of the quirky rip-off prison romp 

pile . it's petty thievery like this that puts flimsy flicks like this behind bars
the package in which this fascinating -- and timely -- content comes wrapped is disappointingly generic . 
guys say mean things and shoot a lot of bullets . some of the characters die and others don't , and the film pretends that those living have 

learned some sort of lesson , and , really , nobody in the viewing audience cares . 
wildly incompetent but brilliantly named half past dead -- or for seagal pessimists : totally past his prime . 
just another combination of bad animation and mindless violence . . . lacking the slightest bit of wit or charm . 
all the movie's narrative gymnastics can't disguise the fact that it's inauthentic at its core and that its story just isn't worth telling . 
much like its easily dismissive take on the upscale lifestyle , there isn't much there here . 
the film ultimately offers nothing more than people in an urban jungle needing other people to survive . . . 
for all its shoot-outs , fistfights , and car chases , this movie is a phlegmatic bore , so tedious it makes the silly spy vs . spy film the 

sum of all fears , starring ben affleck , seem downright hitchcockian . 
this mild-mannered farce , directed by one of its writers , john c . walsh , is corny in a way that bespeaks an expiration date passed a long 

time ago . 
[a] rather thinly-conceived movie . 
a bit too eager to please . 
you'd be hard put to find a movie character more unattractive or odorous [than leon] . 
kapur's contradictory feelings about his material result in a movie that works against itself . 
 " the road paved with good intentions leads to the video store " 
animated drivel meant to enhance the self-image of drooling idiots . 
so-so entertainment . 
one scene after another in this supposedly funny movie falls to the floor with a sickening thud . 
'the chateau is never quite able to overcome the cultural moat surrounding its ludicrous and contrived plot . '
meyjes focuses too much on max when he should be filling the screen with this tortured , dull artist and monster-in-the- making . 
jacobi , the most fluent of actors , is given relatively dry material from nijinsky's writings to perform , and the visuals , even erotically 

frank ones , become dullingly repetitive . 
crudup's screen presence is the one thing that holds interest in the midst of a mushy , existential exploration of why men leave their families 

. 
there is one surefire way to get a nomination for a best-foreign-film oscar : make a movie about whimsical folk who learn a nonchallenging , 

life-affirming lesson while walking around a foreign city with stunning architecture . 
despite terrific special effects and funnier gags , harry potter and the chamber of secrets finds a way to make j . k . rowling's marvelous 

series into a deadly bore . 
an incredibly narrow in-joke targeted to the tiniest segment of an already obscure demographic . 
the only thing i laughed at were the people who paid to see it . 
all of the elements are in place for a great film noir , but director george hickenlooper's approach to the material is too upbeat . 
the hackneyed story about an affluent damsel in distress who decides to fight her bully of a husband is simply too overdone . 
the phone rings and a voice tells you you've got seven days left to live . then you get another phone call warning you that if the video isn't 

back at blockbuster before midnight , you're going to face frightening late fees . o . k . , not really . 
possibly the most irresponsible picture ever released by a major film studio . 
the film's overall mood and focus is interesting but constantly unfulfilling . 
 . . . a cheap , ludicrous attempt at serious horror . 
those of you who are not an eighth grade girl will most likely doze off during this one . 
punitively affirmational parable . 
befuddled in its characterizations as it begins to seem as long as the two year affair which is its subject
from beginning to end , this overheated melodrama plays like a student film . 
the movie would seem less of a trifle if ms . sugarman followed through on her defiance of the saccharine . 
it's just not very smart . 
like the excruciating end of days , collateral damage presents schwarzenegger as a tragic figure , but sympathy really belongs with any viewer 

forced to watch him try out so many complicated facial expressions . 
imagine ( if possible ) a pasolini film without passion or politics , or an almodovar movie without beauty or humor , and you have some idea of 

the glum , numb experience of watching o fantasma . 
in trying to be daring and original , it comes off as only occasionally satirical and never fresh . 
90 punitive minutes of eardrum-dicing gunplay , screeching-metal smashups , and flaccid odd-couple sniping . 
sadly , though many of the actors throw off a spark or two when they first appear , they can't generate enough heat in this cold vacuum of a 

comedy to start a reaction . 
never capitalizes on this concept and opts for the breezy and amateurish feel of an after school special on the subject of tolerance . 
after a while , hoffman's quirks and mannerisms , particularly his penchant for tearing up on cue -- things that seem so real in small doses -- 

become annoying and artificial . 
this wretchedly unfunny wannabe comedy is inane and awful - no doubt , it's the worst movie i've seen this summer . 
it's drab . it's uninteresting . it squanders chan's uniqueness ; it could even be said to squander jennifer love hewitt ! 
the movie keeps coming back to the achingly unfunny phonce and his several silly subplots . 
this tale has been told and retold ; the races and rackets change , but the song remains the same . 
a surprisingly flat retread , hobbled by half-baked setups and sluggish pacing . 
forget the psychology 101 study of romantic obsession and just watch the procession of costumes in castles and this won't seem like such a bore 

. 
a film that should be relegated to a dark video store corner is somehow making its way instead to theaters . it's hard to imagine acting that 

could be any flatter . 
new ways of describing badness need to be invented to describe exactly how bad it is . 
lots of effort and intelligence are on display but in execution it is all awkward , static , and lifeless rumblings . 
when cowering and begging at the feet a scruffy giannini , madonna gives her best performance since abel ferrara had her beaten to a pulp in 

his dangerous game . 
i suspect that there are more interesting ways of dealing with the subject . 
decent but dull . 
the film itself is about something very interesting and odd that would probably work better as a real documentary without the insinuation of 

mediocre acting or a fairly trite narrative . 
an unintentional parody of every teen movie made in the last five years . 
only for young children , if them . their parents would do well to cram earplugs in their ears and put pillowcases over their heads for 87 

minutes . 
for all its violence , the movie is remarkably dull with only caine making much of an impression . 
no matter how firmly director john stainton has his tongue in his cheek , the fact remains that a wacky concept does not a movie make . 
a sub-formulaic slap in the face to seasonal cheer . 
the action is reasonably well-done . . . yet story , character and comedy bits are too ragged to ever fit smoothly together . 
several uninteresting , unlikeable people do bad things to and with each other in " unfaithful . " why anyone who is not a character in this 

movie should care is beyond me . 
thin period piece . 
hill looks to be going through the motions , beginning with the pale script . 
howard conjures the past via surrealist flourishes so overwrought you'd swear he just stepped out of a bu?uel retrospective . 
the best thing that can be said of the picture is that it does have a few cute moments . 
it's not a bad premise , just a bad movie . 
an already thin story boils down to surviving invaders seeking an existent anti-virus . if only there were one for this kind of movie . 
by the time the surprise ending is revealed , interest cannot be revived . 
the heedless impetuousness of youth is on full , irritating display in [this] meandering and pointless french coming-of-age import from 

writer-director anne-sophie birot . 
a peculiar misfire that even tunney can't save . 
watching queen of the damned is like reading a research paper , with special effects tossed in . 
i can't remember the last time i saw worse stunt editing or cheaper action movie production values than in extreme ops . 
too much of nemesis has a tired , talky feel . 
i felt trapped and with no obvious escape for the entire 100 minutes . 
when mr . hundert tells us in his narration that 'this is a story without surprises , ' we nod in agreement . 
leaves us wondering less about its ideas and more about its characterization of hitler and the contrived nature of its provocative conclusion . 
it is that rare combination of bad writing , bad direction and bad acting -- the trifecta of badness . 
each scene wreaks of routine ; the film never manages to generate a single threat of suspense . 
a soulless jumble of ineptly assembled cliches and pabulum that plays like a 95-minute commercial for nba properties . 
borstal boy represents the worst kind of filmmaking , the kind that pretends to be passionate and truthful but is really frustratingly timid 

and soggy . 
the film's lack of personality permeates all its aspects ó from the tv movie-esque , affected child acting to the dullest irish pub scenes 

ever filmed . 
works on the whodunit level as its larger themes get lost in the murk of its own making
crush could be the worst film a man has made about women since valley of the dolls . 
4ever has the same sledgehammer appeal as pokemon videos , but it breathes more on the big screen and induces headaches more slowly . 
feels like the work of someone who may indeed have finally aged past his prime . . . and , perhaps more than he realizes , just wants to be 

liked by the people who can still give him work . 
trailer park magnolia : too long , too cutesy , too sure of its own importance , and possessed of that peculiar tension of being too dense & 

about nothing at all . 
[a] stuporously solemn film . 
viewers of barney's crushingly self-indulgent spectacle will see nothing in it to match the ordeal of sitting through it . 
 . . . its stupidities wind up sticking in one's mind a lot more than the cool bits . 
sayles . . . once again strands his superb performers in the same old story . 
the piano teacher , like its title character , is repellantly out of control . 
i have to admit i walked out of runteldat . i did go back and check out the last 10 minutes , but these were more repulsive than the first 30 

or 40 minutes . 
the filmmakers lack the nerve . . . to fully exploit the script's potential for sick humor . 
the film wasn't preachy , but it was feminism by the book . 
 . . . the same tired old gags , modernized for the extreme sports generation . there's already been too many of these films . . . 
several of steven soderbergh's earlier films were hailed as the works of an artist . sadly , full frontal plays like the work of a dilettante . 
clockstoppers is one of those crazy , mixed-up films that doesn't know what it wants to be when it grows up . 
although bright , well-acted and thought-provoking , tuck everlasting suffers from a laconic pace and a lack of traditional action . 
'the war of the roses , ' trailer-trash style . entertaining but like shooting fish in a barrel . 
supposedly , pokemon can't be killed , but pokemon 4ever practically assures that the pocket monster movie franchise is nearly ready to keel 

over . 
white hasn't developed characters so much as caricatures , one-dimensional buffoons that get him a few laughs but nothing else . 
when you resurrect a dead man , hard copy should come a-knocking , no ? 
cattaneo should have followed the runaway success of his first film , the full monty , with something different . 
the film feels formulaic , its plot and pacing typical hollywood war-movie stuff , while the performances elicit more of a sense of deja vu 

than awe . 
this overproduced piece of dreck is shockingly bad and absolutely unnecessary . hmmmÖmight i suggest that the wayward wooden one end it all by 

stuffing himself into an electric pencil sharpener ? 
the makers of mothman prophecies succeed in producing that most frightening of all movies -- a mediocre horror film too bad to be good and too 

good to be bad . 
mr . deeds is not really a film as much as it is a loose collection of not-so-funny gags , scattered moments of lazy humor . 
how this one escaped the lifetime network i'll never know . 
couldn't someone take rob schneider and have him switch bodies with a funny person ? 
one of these days hollywood will come up with an original idea for a teen movie , but until then there's always these rehashes to feed to the 

younger generations . 
for all its brilliant touches , dragon loses its fire midway , nearly flickering out by its perfunctory conclusion . 
i have to admit that i am baffled by jason x . 
a mean-spirited film made by someone who surely read the catcher in the rye but clearly suffers from dyslexia
instead of a witty expose on the banality and hypocrisy of too much kid-vid , we get an ugly , mean-spirited lashing out by an adult who's 

apparently been forced by his kids to watch too many barney videos . 
this is a film living far too much in its own head . 
the umpteenth summer skinny dip in jerry bruckheimer's putrid pond of retread action twaddle . 
national lampoon's van wilder may aim to be the next animal house , but it more closely resembles this year's version of tomcats . 
the film thrusts the inchoate but already eldritch christian right propaganda machine into national media circles . 
dogtown is hollow , self-indulgent , and - worst of all - boring . 
a movie so bad that it quickly enters the pantheon of wreckage that includes battlefield earth and showgirls . 
more of a career curio than a major work . 
it's just too bad the screenwriters eventually shoot themselves in the feet with cop flick cliches like an oily arms dealer , squad car pile-

ups and the requisite screaming captain . 
cox is far more concerned with aggrandizing madness , not the man , and the results might drive you crazy . 
to be influenced chiefly by humanity's greatest shame , reality shows -- reality shows for god's sake ! -- is a crime that should be punishable 

by chainsaw . 
taken as a whole , the tuxedo doesn't add up to a whole lot . 
as we have come to learn -- as many times as we have fingers to count on -- jason is a killer who doesn't know the meaning of the word 'quit . 

' the filmmakers might want to look it up . 
a frustrating 'tweener' -- too slick , contrived and exploitative for the art houses and too cynical , small and decadent for the malls . 
what's surprising about this traditional thriller , moderately successful but not completely satisfying , is exactly how genteel and 

unsurprising the execution turns out to be . 
drowning's too good for this sucker . 
an instantly forgettable snow-and-stuntwork extravaganza that likely will be upstaged by an avalanche of more appealing holiday-season product 

. 
frankly , it's pretty stupid . i had more fun with ben stiller's zoolander , which i thought was rather clever . but there's plenty to offend 

everyone . . . 
love liza is a festival film that would have been better off staying on the festival circuit . 
there are things to like about murder by numbers -- but , in the end , the disparate elements don't gel . 
 . . . tackling a low-budget movie in which inexperienced children play the two main characters might not be the best way to cut your teeth in 

the film industry . 
quite frankly , i can't see why any actor of talent would ever work in a mcculloch production again if they looked at how this movie turned out 

. 
my precious new star wars movie is a lumbering , wheezy drag . . . 
the innocence of holiday cheer ain't what it used to be . 
too campy to work as straight drama and too violent and sordid to function as comedy , vulgar is , truly and thankfully , a one-of-a-kind work 

. 
horrid little propaganda film with fascinating connections not only to the serbs themselves but also to a network of american right-wing 

extremists . 
should have gone straight to video . it looks like an action movie , but it's so poorly made , on all levels , that it doesn't even qualify as 

a spoof of such . 
it is supremely unfunny and unentertaining to watch middle-age and older men drink to excess , piss on trees , b . s . one another and put on a 

show in drag . 
consider the film a celluloid litmus test for the intellectual and emotional pedigree of your date and a giant step backward for a director i 

admire . 
a boring , pretentious muddle that uses a sensational , real-life 19th-century crime as a metaphor for -- well , i'm not exactly sure what -- 

and has all the dramatic weight of a raindrop . 
sheridan had a wonderful account to work from , but , curiously , he waters it down , turning grit and vulnerability into light reading . 
heavy with flabby rolls of typical toback machinations . 
it is very difficult to care about the character , and that is the central flaw of the film . 
snow dogs finds its humour in a black man getting humiliated by a pack of dogs who are smarter than him
whole stretches of the film may be incomprehensible to moviegoers not already clad in basic black . 
reggio and glass so rhapsodize cynicism , with repetition and languorous slo-mo sequences , that glass's dirgelike score becomes a fang-baring 

lullaby . 
es triste tener que decirles que lo ˙nico grato de la cinta es el cuerpo desnudo de la heather . . . 
ends up offering nothing more than the latest schwarzenegger or stallone flick would . 
the film makes strong arguments regarding the social status of america's indigenous people , but really only exists to try to eke out an 

emotional tug of the heart , one which it fails to get . 
charlize chases kevin with a gun . courtney chases stuart with a cell phone . the sound of gunfire and cell phones ringing . 
if the tuxedo actually were a suit , it would fit chan like a $99 bargain-basement special . 
parents beware ; this is downright movie penance . 
 . . . a complete shambles of a movie so sloppy , so uneven , so damn unpleasant that i can't believe any viewer , young or old , would have a 

good time here . 
has nothing good to speak about other than the fact that it is relatively short , tries its best to hide the fact that seagal's overweight and 

out of shape . 
a pathetically inane and unimaginative cross between xxx and vertical limit . 
impeccably filmed , sexually charged , but ultimately lacking in substance , not to mention dragged down by a leaden closing act . 
feels at times like a giant commercial for universal studios , where much of the action takes place . 
while the mystery unravels , the characters respond by hitting on each other . 
britney spears' phoniness is nothing compared to the movie's contrived , lame screenplay and listless direction . 
every sequel you skip will be two hours gained . consider this review life-affirming . 
if the movie were all comedy , it might work better . but it has an ambition to say something about its subjects , but not a willingness . 
the movie , while beautiful , feels labored , with a hint of the writing exercise about it . 
twenty-three movies into a mostly magnificent directorial career , clint eastwood's efficiently minimalist style finally has failed him . big 

time . 
this heist flick about young brooklyn hoods is off the shelf after two years to capitalize on the popularity of vin diesel , seth green and 

barry pepper . it should have stayed there . 
the film has a childlike quality about it . but the feelings evoked in the film are lukewarm and quick to pass . 
the most opaque , self-indulgent and just plain goofy an excuse for a movie as you can imagine . 
it's not a film to be taken literally on any level , but its focus always appears questionable . 
big fat liar is little more than home alone raised to a new , self-deprecating level . 
the movie is gorgeously made , but it is also somewhat shallow and art-conscious . 
the only time 8 crazy nights comes close to hitting a comedic or satirical target is during the offbeat musical numbers . 
loses its sense of humor in a vat of failed jokes , twitchy acting , and general boorishness . 
there's a delightfully quirky movie to be made from curling , but brooms isn't it . 
the story suffers a severe case of oversimplification , superficiality and silliness . 
chamber of secrets will find millions of eager fans . but if the essence of magic is its make-believe promise of life that soars above the 

material realm , this is the opposite of a truly magical movie . 
too clever by about nine-tenths . 
has all the hallmarks of a movie designed strictly for children's home video , a market so insatiable it absorbs all manner of lame 

entertainment , as long as 3-year-olds find it diverting . 
well-meant but unoriginal . 
bears about as much resemblance to the experiences of most battered women as spider-man does to the experiences of most teenagers . 
toward the end sum of all fears morphs into a mundane '70s disaster flick . 
director carl franklin , so crisp and economical in one false move , bogs down in genre cliches here . 
mendes still doesn't quite know how to fill a frame . like the hanks character , he's a slow study : the action is stilted and the tabloid 

energy embalmed . 
this thing is just garbage . 
as crimes go , writer-director michael kalesniko's how to kill your neighbor's dog is slight but unendurable . 
there must be an audience that enjoys the friday series , but i wouldn't be interested in knowing any of them personally . 
a bold ( and lovely ) experiment that will almost certainly bore most audiences into their own brightly colored dreams . 
an uplifting , largely bogus story . 
an empty exercise , a florid but ultimately vapid crime melodrama with lots of surface flash but little emotional resonance . 
if you are curious to see the darker side of what's going on with young tv actors ( dawson leery did what ? ! ? ) , or see some interesting 

storytelling devices , you might want to check it out , but there's nothing very attractive about this movie . 
my own minority report is that it stinks . 
trying to make head or tail of the story in the hip-hop indie snipes is enough to give you brain strain -- and the pay-off is negligible . 
the script is high on squaddie banter , low on shocks . 
 . . . if you , like me , think an action film disguised as a war tribute is disgusting to begin with , then you're in for a painful ride . 
while solondz tries and tries hard , storytelling fails to provide much more insight than the inside column of a torn book jacket . 
with very little to add beyond the dark visions already relayed by superb recent predecessors like swimming with sharks and the player , this 

latest skewering . . . may put off insiders and outsiders alike . 
[davis] wants to cause his audience an epiphany , yet he refuses to give us real situations and characters . 
without a fresh infusion of creativity , 4ever is neither a promise nor a threat so much as wishful thinking . 
 . . . unlike [scorsese's mean streets] , ash wednesday is essentially devoid of interesting characters or even a halfway intriguing plot . 
being unique doesn't necessarily equate to being good , no matter how admirably the filmmakers have gone for broke . 
a few hours after you've seen it , you forget you've been to the movies . 
odd and weird . 
waydowntown may not be an important movie , or even a good one , but it provides a nice change of mindless pace in collision with the hot oscar 

season currently underway . 
yes , i suppose it's lovely that cal works out his issues with his dad and comes to terms with his picture-perfect life -- but world traveler 

gave me no reason to care , so i didn't . 
shadyac , who belongs with the damned for perpetrating patch adams , trots out every ghost trick from the sixth sense to the mothman prophecies 

. 
the photographer's show-don't-tell stance is admirable , but it can make him a problematic documentary subject . 
it is not the first time that director sara sugarman stoops to having characters drop their pants for laughs and not the last time she fails to 

provoke them . 
i'd be hard pressed to think of a film more cloyingly sappy than evelyn this year . 
nothing more than an amiable but unfocused bagatelle that plays like a loosely-connected string of acting-workshop exercises . 
meanders between its powerful moments . 
what remains is a variant of the nincompoop benigni persona , here a more annoying , though less angry version of the irresponsible sandlerian 

manchild , undercut by the voice of the star of road trip . 
a backhanded ode to female camaraderie penned by a man who has little clue about either the nature of women or of friendship . 
pure of intention and passably diverting , his secret life is light , innocuous and unremarkable . 
 . . . delivers few moments of inspiration amid the bland animation and simplistic story . 
take away the controversy , and it's not much more watchable than a mexican soap opera . 
it's got the brawn , but not the brains . 
mindless and boring martial arts and gunplay with too little excitement and zero compelling storyline . 
a lot of talent is wasted in this crass , low-wattage endeavor . 
to show these characters in the act and give them no feelings of remorse -- and to cut repeatedly to the flashback of the original rape -- is 

overkill to the highest degree . 
[t]oo many of these gross out scenes . . . 
about one in three gags in white's intermittently wise script hits its mark ; the rest are padding unashamedly appropriated from the teen-

exploitation playbook . 
little is done to support the premise other than fling gags at it to see which ones shtick . 
reno does what he can in a thankless situation , the film ricochets from humor to violence and back again , and ryoko hirosue makes us wonder 

if she is always like that . 
if jews were catholics , this would be catechism
one of those films that seems tailor made to air on pay cable to offer some modest amusements when one has nothing else to watch . 
the big ending surprise almost saves the movie . it's too bad that the rest isn't more compelling . 
charming , if overly complicated . . . 
schneider's mugging is relentless and his constant need to suddenly transpose himself into another character undermines the story's continuity 

and progression . 
all very stylish and beautifully photographed , but far more trouble than it's worth , with fantasy mixing with reality and actors playing more 

than one role just to add to the confusion . 
it's probably not easy to make such a worthless film . . . 
hope keeps arising that the movie will live up to the apparent skills of its makers and the talents of its actors , but it doesn't . 
has no reason to exist , other than to employ hollywood kids and people who owe favors to their famous parents . 
for a guy who has waited three years with breathless anticipation for a new hal hartley movie to pore over , no such thing is a big letdown . 
constantly slips from the grasp of its maker . 
smothered by its own solemnity . 
'christian bale's quinn [is] a leather clad grunge-pirate with a hairdo like gandalf in a wind-tunnel and a simply astounding cor-blimey-luv-

a-duck cockney accent . '
might be one of those vanity projects in which a renowned filmmaker attempts to show off his talent by surrounding himself with untalented 

people . 
after you laugh once ( maybe twice ) , you will have completely forgotten the movie by the time you get back to your car in the parking lot . 
not one moment in the enterprise didn't make me want to lie down in a dark room with something cool to my brow . 
in the era of the sopranos , it feels painfully redundant and inauthentic . 
the overall vibe is druggy and self-indulgent , like a spring-break orgy for pretentious arts majors . 
breen's script is sketchy with actorish notations on the margin of acting . 
there's no question that epps scores once or twice , but it's telling that his funniest moment comes when he falls about ten feet onto his head 

. 
if only merchant paid more attention the story . 
at the one-hour mark , herzog simply runs out of ideas and the pace turns positively leaden as the movie sputters to its inevitable tragic 

conclusion . 
 . . . too contrived to be as naturally charming as it needs to be . 
a simpler , leaner treatment would have been preferable ; after all , being about nothing is sometimes funnier than being about something . 
the characters are based on stock clichÈs , and the attempt to complicate the story only defies credibility . 
everything about it from the bland songs to the colorful but flat drawings is completely serviceable and quickly forgettable . 
not the great american comedy , but if you liked the previous movies in the series , you'll have a good time with this one too . 
a domestic melodrama with weak dialogue and biopic cliches . 
mr . goyer's loose , unaccountable direction is technically sophisticated in the worst way . 
the movie is so thoughtlessly assembled . 
benigni presents himself as the boy puppet pinocchio , complete with receding hairline , weathered countenance and american breckin meyer's 

ridiculously inappropriate valley boy voice . 
plays like some corny television production from a bygone era
the end result is like cold porridge with only the odd enjoyably chewy lump . 
for all the charm of kevin kline and a story that puts old-fashioned values under the microscope , there's something creepy about this movie . 
i was feeling this movie until it veered off too far into the exxon zone , and left me behind at the station looking for a return ticket to 

realism . 
producer john penotti surveyed high school students . . . and came back with the astonishing revelation that " they wanted to see something 

that didn't talk down to them . " ignoring that , he made swimfan anyway
naipaul fans may be disappointed . those who are not acquainted with the author's work , on the other hand , may fall fast asleep . 
hoffman waits too long to turn his movie in an unexpected direction , and even then his tone retains a genteel , prep-school quality that feels 

dusty and leatherbound . 
if you're a crocodile hunter fan , you'll enjoy at least the " real " portions of the film . if you're looking for a story , don't bother . 
full frontal had no effect and elicited no sympathies for any of the characters . by that measure , it is a failure . 
a baffling mixed platter of gritty realism and magic realism with a hard-to-swallow premise . 
an affable but undernourished romantic comedy that fails to match the freshness of the actress-producer and writer's previous collaboration , 

miss congeniality . 
sometimes this modest little number clicks , and sometimes it doesn't . 
like a pack of dynamite sticks , built for controversy . the film is explosive , but a few of those sticks are wet . 
has its charming quirks and its dull spots . 
an admitted egomaniac , evans is no hollywood villain , and yet this grating showcase almost makes you wish he'd gone the way of don simpson . 
the audience when i saw this one was chuckling at all the wrong times , and that's a bad sign when they're supposed to be having a collective 

heart attack . 
everyone's to blame here . 
you get the impression that writer and director burr steers knows the territory . . . but his sense of humor has yet to lose the smug self-

satisfaction usually associated with the better private schools . 
less a study in madness or love than a study in schoolgirl obsession . 
rice never clearly defines his characters or gives us a reason to care about them . 
it's a bizarre curiosity memorable mainly for the way it fritters away its potentially interesting subject matter via a banal script , 

unimpressive acting and indifferent direction . 
a slight and obvious effort , even for one whose target demographic is likely still in the single digits , age-wise . 
sex with strangers will shock many with its unblinking frankness . but what is missing from it all is a moral . what is the filmmakers' point ? 

why did they deem it necessary to document all this emotional misery ? 
you see robin williams and psycho killer , and you think , hmmmmm . you see the movie and you think , zzzzzzzzz . 
downright transparent is the script's endless assault of embarrassingly ham-fisted sex jokes that reek of a script rewrite designed to garner 

the film a " cooler " pg-13 rating . 
the movie slides downhill as soon as macho action conventions assert themselves . 
formulaic to the 51st power , more like . 
draggin' about dragons
howard and his co-stars all give committed performances , but they're often undone by howard's self-conscious attempts to find a 'literary' 

filmmaking style to match his subject . 
a respectable but uninspired thriller that's intelligent and considered in its details , but ultimately weak in its impact . 
jones helps breathe some life into the insubstantial plot , but even he is overwhelmed by predictability . 
the movie just has too much on its plate to really stay afloat for its just under ninety minute running time . 
comes off more like a misdemeanor , a flat , unconvincing drama that never catches fire . 
cinematic poo . 
offers absolutely nothing i hadn't already seen . 
 " analyze that " is one of those crass , contrived sequels that not only fails on its own , but makes you second-guess your affection for the 

original . 
you might say tykwer has done all that heaven allows , if you wanted to make as anti-kieslowski a pun as possible . suffice to say its total 

promise is left slightly unfulfilled . 
complex , sinuously plotted and , somehow , off-puttingly cold . 
first-time writer-director dylan kidd also has a good ear for dialogue , and the characters sound like real people . 
 . . . an airless , prepackaged julia roberts wannabe that stinks so badly of hard-sell image-mongering you'll wonder if lopez's publicist 

should share screenwriting credit . 
goldmember has none of the visual wit of the previous pictures , and it looks as though jay roach directed the film from the back of a taxicab 

. 
could as easily have been called 'under siege 3 : in alcatraz' . . . a cinematic corpse that never springs to life . 
in comparison to his earlier films it seems a disappointingly thin slice of lower-class london life ; despite the title . . . amounts to 

surprisingly little . 
lame sweet home leaves no southern stereotype unturned . 
slow , dry , poorly cast , but beautifully shot . 
the jokes are sophomoric , stereotypes are sprinkled everywhere and the acting ranges from bad to bodacious . 
will give many ministers and bible-study groups hours of material to discuss . but mainstream audiences will find little of interest in this 

film , which is often preachy and poorly acted . 
in its chicken heart , crush goes to absurd lengths to duck the very issues it raises . 
this long and relentlessly saccharine film is a clear case of preaching to the converted . 
the film is flat . 
the movie is a lumbering load of hokum but . . . it's at least watchable . 
it's a boom-box of a movie that might have been titled 'the loud and the ludicrous' . . . the pandering to a moviegoing audience dominated by 

young males is all too calculated . 
an unbelievably stupid film , though occasionally fun enough to make you forget its absurdity . 
the first fatal attraction was vile enough . do we really need the tiger beat version ? 
this bond film goes off the beaten path , not necessarily for the better . 
the problem is that the movie has no idea of it is serious or not . 
when the fire burns out , we've only come face-to-face with a couple dragons and that's where the film ultimately fails . 
it would work much better as a one-hour tv documentary . 
the elements were all there but lack of a pyschological center knocks it flat . 
anemic chronicle of money grubbing new yorkers and their serial loveless hook ups . 
simply doesn't have sufficient heft to justify its two-hour running time . 
an unsuccessful attempt at a movie of ideas . 
queen of the damned as you might have guessed , makes sorry use of aaliyah in her one and only starring role -- she does little here but point 

at things that explode into flame . 
this toothless dog , already on cable , loses all bite on the big screen . 
it made me feel unclean , and i'm the guy who liked there's something about mary and both american pie movies . oh , and booty call . 
not only is it hokey , manipulative and as bland as wonder bread dipped in milk , but it also does the absolute last thing we need hollywood 

doing to us : it preaches . 
it's so crammed with scenes and vistas and pretty moments that it's left a few crucial things out , like character development and coherence . 
serving sara should be served an eviction notice at every theater stuck with it . 
director roger michell does so many of the little things right that it's difficult not to cuss him out severely for bungling the big stuff . 
a loud , low-budget and tired formula film that arrives cloaked in the euphemism 'urban drama . '
the movie has a script ( by paul pender ) made of wood , and it's relentlessly folksy , a procession of stagy set pieces stacked with binary 

oppositions . 
a pathetic exploitation film that tries to seem sincere , and just seems worse for the effort . 
at some point , all this visual trickery stops being clever and devolves into flashy , vaguely silly overkill . 
despite some charm and heart , this quirky soccer import is forgettable
meyjes's movie , like max rothman's future , does not work . 
what's needed so badly but what is virtually absent here is either a saving dark humor or the feel of poetic tragedy . 
schneidermeister . . . makin' a fool of himself . . . losin' his fan base . . . 
an ambitious , serious film that manages to do virtually everything wrong ; sitting through it is something akin to an act of cinematic penance 

. 
not once does it come close to being exciting . 
a frankenstein mishmash that careens from dark satire to cartoonish slapstick , bartleby performs neither one very well . 
it plays like a big-budget , after-school special with a generous cast , who at times lift the material from its well-meaning clunkiness . 
there's something not entirely convincing about the quiet american . and that holds true for both the movie and the title character played by 

brendan fraser . 
one of those strained caper movies that's hardly any fun to watch and begins to vaporize from your memory minutes after it ends . 
needed a little less bling-bling and a lot more romance . 
the ending doesn't work . . . but most of the movie works so well i'm almost recommending it , anyway -- maybe not to everybody , but certainly 

to people with a curiosity about how a movie can go very right , and then step wrong . 
it's hard to believe these jokers are supposed to have pulled off four similar kidnappings before . 
i'm not exactly sure what this movie thinks it is about . 
cal is an unpleasantly shallow and immature character with whom to spend 110 claustrophobic minutes . 
so brisk is wang's pacing that none of the excellent cast are given air to breathe . 
the bottom line , at least in my opinion , is imposter makes a better short story than it does a film . 
some elements of it really blow the big one , but other parts are decent . 
it is just too bad the film's story does not live up to its style . 
unless you're a fanatic , the best advice is : 'scooby' don't . 
a cautionary tale about the folly of superficiality that is itself endlessly superficial . 
for single digits kidlets stuart little 2 is still a no brainer . if you're looking to rekindle the magic of the first film , you'll need a 

stronger stomach than us . 
shreve's graceful dual narrative gets clunky on the screen , and we keep getting torn away from the compelling historical tale to a less-

compelling soap opera . 
contains a few big laughs but many more that graze the funny bone or miss it altogether , in part because the consciously dumbed-down approach 

wears thin . 
nothing more than a widget cranked out on an assembly line to see if stupid americans will get a kick out of goofy brits with cute accents 

performing ages-old slapstick and unfunny tricks . 
this is a film tailor-made for those who when they were in high school would choose the cliff-notes over reading a full-length classic . 
the movie is undone by a filmmaking methodology that's just experimental enough to alienate the mainstream audience while ringing cliched to 

hardened indie-heads . 
a jumbled fantasy comedy that did not figure out a coherent game plan at scripting , shooting or post-production stages . 
a sad and rote exercise in milking a played-out idea -- a straight guy has to dress up in drag -- that shockingly manages to be even worse than 

its title would imply . 
personal velocity ought to be exploring these women's inner lives , but it never moves beyond their surfaces . 
we hate [madonna] within the film's first five minutes , and she lacks the skill or presence to regain any ground . 
sounding like arnold schwarzenegger , with a physique to match , [ahola] has a wooden delivery and encounters a substantial arc of change that 

doesn't produce any real transformation . 
two big things are missing -- anything approaching a visceral kick , and anything approaching even a vague reason to sit through it all . 
a fascinating but choppy documentary . 
scarcely worth a mention apart from reporting on the number of tumbleweeds blowing through the empty theatres graced with its company . 
the doofus-on- the-loose banter of welcome to collinwood has a cocky , after-hours loopiness to it . and as with most late-night bull sessions 

, eventually the content isn't nearly as captivating as the rowdy participants think it is . 
too stagey , talky -- and long -- for its own good . 
apparently reassembled from the cutting-room floor of any given daytime soap . 
the sinister inspiration that fuelled devito's early work is confused in death to smoochy into something both ugly and mindless . 
despite auteuil's performance , it's a rather listless amble down the middle of the road , where the thematic ironies are too obvious and the 

sexual politics too smug . 
director boris von sychowski instead opts for a routine slasher film that was probably more fun to make than it is to sit through . 
 . . . little more than a well-acted television melodrama shot for the big screen . 
never comes together as a coherent whole . 
an unintentionally surreal kid's picture . . . in which actors in bad bear suits enact a sort of inter-species parody of a vh1 behind the music 

episode . 
first , for a movie that tries to be smart , it's kinda dumb . and second , what's with all the shooting ? 
don't even bother to rent this on video . 
there is something in full frontal , i guess , about artifice and acting and how it distorts reality for people who make movies and watch them 

, but like most movie riddles , it works only if you have an interest in the characters you see . 
this is the kind of movie that gets a quick release before real contenders arrive in september . 
not counting a few gross-out comedies i've been trying to forget , this is the first film in a long time that made me want to bolt the theater 

in the first 10 minutes . 
plays like one long , meandering sketch inspired by the works of john waters and todd solondz , rather than a fully developed story . 
the film doesn't have enough innovation or pizazz to attract teenagers , and it lacks the novel charm that made spy kids a surprising winner 

with both adults and younger audiences . 
a mawkish self-parody that plays like some weird masterpiece theater sketch with neither a point of view nor a compelling reason for being . 
an average b-movie with no aspirations to be anything more . 
bartlett's hero remains a reactive cipher , when opening the man's head and heart is the only imaginable reason for the film to be made . 
gibney and jarecki just want to string the bastard up . 
the plot is plastered with one hollywood cliche after another , most of which involve precocious kids getting the better of obnoxious adults . 
less worrying about covering all the drama in frida's life and more time spent exploring her process of turning pain into art would have made 

this a superior movie . 
a film that suffers because of its many excesses . 
too bland and fustily tasteful to be truly prurient . 
in any case , i would recommend big bad love only to winger fans who have missed her since 1995's forget paris . but even then , i'd recommend 

waiting for dvd and just skipping straight to her scenes . 
depicts the sorriest and most sordid of human behavior on the screen , then laughs at how clever it's being . 
nijinsky says , 'i know how to suffer' and if you see this film you'll know too . 
'cq may one day be fondly remembered as roman coppola's brief pretentious period before going on to other films that actually tell a story 

worth caring about
the only thing scary about feardotcom is that the filmmakers and studio are brazen enough to attempt to pass this stinker off as a scary movie 

. 
 . . . stale and uninspired . 
a dreary movie . 
 . . . the story simply putters along looking for astute observations and coming up blank . 
instead of contriving a climactic hero's death for the beloved-major- character-who-shall- remain-nameless , why not invite some genuine 

spontaneity into the film by having the evil aliens' laser guns actually hit something for once ? 
it just didn't mean much to me and played too skewed to ever get a hold on ( or be entertained by ) . 
this action-thriller/dark comedy is one of the most repellent things to pop up in a cinematic year already littered with celluloid garbage . 
mib ii is a movie that makes it possible for the viewer to doze off for a few minutes or make several runs to the concession stand and/or 

restroom and not feel as if he or she has missed anything . that's because relatively nothing happens . 
no amount of arty theorizing -- the special effects are 'german-expressionist , ' according to the press notes -- can render it anything but 

laughable . 
blue crush follows the formula , but throws in too many conflicts to keep the story compelling . 
boyd's screenplay ( co-written with guardian hack nick davies ) has a florid turn of phrase that owes more to guy ritchie than the bard of avon 

. 
there's not a spark of new inspiration in it , just more of the same , done with noticeably less energy and imagination . 
jackson shamefully strolls through this mess with a smug grin , inexplicably wearing a kilt and carrying a bag of golf clubs over one shoulder 

. 
a moving picture that does not move . 
ruh-roh ! romething's really wrong with this ricture ! 
its salient points are simultaneously buried , drowned and smothered in the excesses of writer-director roger avary . 
i'm not sure these words have ever been together in the same sentence : this erotic cannibal movie is boring . 
'god help us , but capra and cooper are rolling over in their graves . '
 . . . an hour-and-a-half of inoffensive , unmemorable filler . 
is it a comedy ? a drama ? a romance ? a cartoon ? 
ze movie starts out so funny , then she is nothing . 
did the film inform and educate me ? yes . did it move me to care about what happened in 1915 armenia ? no . and that is where ararat went 

astray . 
it's a bad sign in a thriller when you instantly know whodunit . 
has a customarily jovial air but a deficit of flim-flam inventiveness . 
eight legged freaks won't join the pantheon of great monster/science fiction flicks that we have come to love . . . 
it gets the details of its time frame right but it completely misses its emotions . 
who , exactly , is fighting whom here ? ah , yes , that would be me : fighting off the urge to doze . 
a kilted jackson is an unsettling sight , and indicative of his , if you will , out-of-kilter character , who rambles aimlessly through ill-

conceived action pieces . 
contrived , awkward and filled with unintended laughs , the film shows signs that someone other than the director got into the editing room and 

tried to improve things by making the movie go faster . 
starts out with tremendous promise , introducing an intriguing and alluring premise , only to fall prey to a boatload of screenwriting cliches 

that sink it faster than a leaky freighter . 
the film lapses too often into sugary sentiment and withholds delivery on the pell-mell pyrotechnics its punchy style promises . 
the only question . . . is to determine how well the schmaltz is manufactured -- to assess the quality of the manipulative engineering . 

average , at best , i'm afraid . 
this movie is so bad , that it's almost worth seeing because it's so bad . 
a crisply made movie that is no more than mildly amusing . 
this movie feel more like a non-stop cry for attention , than an attempt at any kind of satisfying entertainment . 
overall , it's a pretty mediocre family film . 
love may have been in the air onscreen , but i certainly wasn't feeling any of it . 
in addition to the overcooked , ham-fisted direction , which has all the actors reaching for the back row , the dialogue sounds like horrible 

poetry . 
the very definition of what critics have come to term an " ambitious failure . " 
it's as if de palma spent an hour setting a fancy table and then served up kraft macaroni and cheese . 
the movie ends with outtakes in which most of the characters forget their lines and just utter 'uhhh , ' which is better than most of the 

writing in the movie . 
worthy of the gong . 
while certainly more naturalistic than its australian counterpart , amari's film falls short in building the drama of lilia's journey . 
i found the movie as divided against itself as the dysfunctional family it portrays . 
the soul-searching deliberateness of the film , although leavened nicely with dry absurdist wit , eventually becomes too heavy for the plot . 
the movie doesn't add anything fresh to the myth . 
as inept as big-screen remakes of the avengers and the wild wild west . 
comes across as a relic from a bygone era , and its convolutions . . . feel silly rather than plausible . 
moves in such odd plot directions and descends into such message-mongering moralism that its good qualities are obscured . 
it's a very sincere work , but it would be better as a diary or documentary . 
once one experiences mr . haneke's own sadistic tendencies toward his audience , one is left with a sour taste in one's mouth , and little else 

. 
oops , she's really done it this time . that chirpy songbird britney spears has popped up with more mindless drivel . 
it's a loathsome movie , it really is and it makes absolutely no sense . 
a chiller resolutely without chills . 
for those of us who respond more strongly to storytelling than computer-generated effects , the new star wars installment hasn't escaped the 

rut dug by the last one . 
the director mostly plays it straight , turning leys' fable into a listless climb down the social ladder . 
 " bad " is the operative word for " bad company , " and i don't mean that in a good way . 
though frida is easier to swallow than julie taymor's preposterous titus , the eye candy here lacks considerable brio . 
drumline is -- the mere suggestion , albeit a visually compelling one , of a fully realized story . 
the whole movie is simply a lazy exercise in bad filmmaking that asks you to not only suspend your disbelief but your intelligence as well . 
the film affords us intriguing glimpses of the insights gleaned from a lifetime of spiritual inquiry , but ram dass : fierce grace doesn't 

organize it with any particular insight . 
pompous and garbled . 
billy crystal and robert de niro sleepwalk through vulgarities in a sequel you can refuse . 
it's loud and boring ; watching it is like being trapped at a bad rock concert . 
merely ( and literally ) tosses around sex toys and offers half-hearted paeans to empowerment that are repeatedly undercut by the brutality of 

the jokes , most at women's expense . 
if you want a movie time trip , the 1960 version is a far smoother ride . 
traffics in the kind of prechewed racial clichÈs that have already been through the corporate stand-up-comedy mill . 
the story is -- forgive me -- a little thin , and the filmmaking clumsy and rushed . 
 . . . grows decidedly flimsier with its many out-sized , out of character and logically porous action set pieces . 
i wish windtalkers had had more faith in the dramatic potential of this true story . this would have been better than the fiction it has 

concocted , and there still could have been room for the war scenes . 
aggressive self-glorification and a manipulative whitewash . stay for the credits and see a devastating comic impersonation by dustin hoffman 

that is revelatory . 
none of the characters or plot-lines are fleshed-out enough to build any interest . 
as social exposÈ , skins has its heart in the right place , but that's not much to hang a soap opera on . 
the whole film has this sneaky feel to it ñ as if the director is trying to dupe the viewer into taking it all as very important simply 

because the movie is ugly to look at and not a hollywood product . 
there's a bit of thematic meat on the bones of queen of the damned , as its origins in an anne rice novel dictate , but generally , it's a 

movie that emphasizes style over character and substance . 
the only way to tolerate this insipid , brutally clueless film might be with a large dose of painkillers . 
this one is certainly well-meaning , but it's also simple-minded and contrived . 
coppola has made a film of intoxicating atmosphere and little else . 
bad and baffling from the get-go . 
a series of immaculately composed shots of patch adams quietly freaking out does not make for much of a movie . 
at a time when we've learned the hard way just how complex international terrorism is , collateral damage paints an absurdly simplistic picture 

. 
the impulses that produced this project . . . are commendable , but the results are uneven . 
a well-acted movie that simply doesn't gel . 
like a can of 2-day old coke . you can taste it , but there's no fizz . 
there's no excuse for following up a delightful , well-crafted family film with a computer-generated cold fish . 
both the crime story and the love story are unusual . but they don't fit well together and neither is well told . 
it's both sitcomishly predictable and cloying in its attempts to be poignant . 
other than a mildly engaging central romance , hospital is sickly entertainment at best and mind-destroying cinematic pollution at worst . 
jaglom offers the none-too-original premise that everyone involved with moviemaking is a con artist and a liar . 
outside of burger's desire to make some kind of film , it's really unclear why this project was undertaken
was i scared ? only at the prospect of beck's next project . let's see , a haunted house , a haunted ship , what's next . . . ghost blimp ? 
a fragile framework upon which to hang broad , mildly fleshed-out characters that seem to have been conjured up only 10 minutes prior to 

filming . 
by the time the plot grinds itself out in increasingly incoherent fashion , you might be wishing for a watch that makes time go faster rather 

than the other way around . 
since lee is a sentimentalist , the film is more worshipful than your random e ! true hollywood story . 
wes craven's presence is felt ; not the craven of 'a nightmare on elm street' or 'the hills have eyes , ' but the sad schlock merchant of 

'deadly friend . '
sunshine state surveys the landscape and assesses the issues with a clear passion for sociology . but the cinematography is cloudy , the 

picture making becalmed . 
it's one long bore . 
it gets old quickly . watch barbershop again if you're in need of a cube fix--this isn't worth sitting through . 
it's leaden and predictable , and laughs are lacking . 
 . . . a cinematic disaster so inadvertently sidesplitting it's worth the price of admission for the ridicule factor alone . 
skip this dreck , rent animal house and go back to the source . 
the movie is a desperate miscalculation . it gives poor dana carvey nothing to do that is really funny , and then expects us to laugh because 

he acts so goofy all the time . 
we just don't really care too much about this love story . in that setting , their struggle is simply too ludicrous and borderline insulting . 
the transporter bombards the viewer with so many explosions and side snap kicks that it ends up being surprisingly dull . 
uzumaki's interesting social parallel and defiant aesthetic seems a prostituted muse . . . 
'men in black ii creates a new threat for the mib , but recycles the same premise . 
large budget notwithstanding , the movie is such a blip on the year's radar screen that it's tempting just to go with it for the ride . but 

this time , the old mib label stands for milder isn't better . 
feels familiar and tired . 
a retread of material already thoroughly plumbed by martin scorsese . 
instead of making his own style , director marcus adams just copies from various sources ñ good sources , bad mixture
criminal conspiracies and true romances move so easily across racial and cultural lines in the film that it makes my big fat greek wedding look 

like an apartheid drama . 
a bore that tends to hammer home every one of its points . 
a story which fails to rise above its disgusting source material . 
it's fitting that a movie as artificial and soulless as the country bears owes its genesis to an animatronic display at disneyland . 
starts as an intense political and psychological thriller but is sabotaged by ticking time bombs and other hollywood-action cliches . 
completely creatively stillborn and executed in a manner that i'm not sure could be a single iota worse . . . a soulless hunk of exploitative 

garbage . 
an uneven look into a grim future that doesn't come close to the level of intelligence and visual splendour that can be seen in other films 

based on philip k . dick stories . 
horrible
the disjointed mess flows as naturally as jolie's hideous yellow 'do . 
bolstered by an astonishing voice cast ( excepting love hewitt ) , an interesting racial tension , and a storyline that i haven't encountered 

since at least pete's dragon . 
an authentically vague , but ultimately purposeless , study in total pandemonium . 
makes a joke out of car chases for an hour and then gives us half an hour of car chases . 
as the sulking , moody male hustler in the title role , [franco] has all of dean's mannerisms and self-indulgence , but none of his sweetness 

and vulnerability . 
the only thing to fear about " fear dot com " is hitting your head on the theater seat in front of you when you doze off thirty minutes into 

the film . 
it's too interested in jerking off in all its byzantine incarnations to bother pleasuring its audience . 
'synthetic' is the best description of this well-meaning , beautifully produced film that sacrifices its promise for a high-powered star 

pedigree . 
it concentrates far too much on the awkward interplay and utter lack of chemistry between chan and hewitt . 
impostor can't think of a thing to do with these characters except have them run through dark tunnels , fight off various anonymous attackers , 

and evade elaborate surveillance technologies . 
judd's characters ought to pick up the durable best seller smart women , foolish choices for advice . 
the script has less spice than a rat burger and the rock's fighting skills are more in line with steven seagal . 
this ill-conceived and expensive project winds up looking like a bunch of talented thesps slumming it . 
 . . . there's a choppy , surface-effect feeling to the whole enterprise . 
doesn't get the job done , running off the limited chemistry created by ralph fiennes and jennifer lopez . 
a particularly joyless , and exceedingly dull , period coming-of-age tale . 
it's impossible to indulge the fanciful daydreams of janice beard ( eileen walsh ) when her real-life persona is so charmless and vacant . 
Öit wasn't the subject matter that ultimately defeated the filmÖit was the unfulfilling , incongruous , " wait a second , did i miss 

something ? " ending . 
this is a movie where the most notable observation is how long you've been sitting still . 
poor editing , bad bluescreen , and ultra-cheesy dialogue highlight the radical action . 
it's super- violent , super-serious and super-stupid . 
so earnest and well-meaning , and so stocked with talent , that you almost forget the sheer , ponderous awfulness of its script . 
just a string of stale gags , with no good inside dope , and no particular bite . 
it's splash without the jokes . 
the chateau would have been benefited from a sharper , cleaner script before it went in front of the camera . not to mention a sharper , 

cleaner camera lens . 
shallow , noisy and pretentious . 
morrissette has performed a difficult task indeed - he's taken one of the world's most fascinating stories and made it dull , lifeless , and 

irritating . 
granddad of le nouvelle vague , jean-luc godard continues to baffle the faithful with his games of hide-and-seek . 
this loud and thoroughly obnoxious comedy about a pair of squabbling working-class spouses is a deeply unpleasant experience . 
it's better than the phantom menace . but unless you're an absolute raving star wars junkie , it isn't much fun . 
philosophically , intellectually and logistically a mess . 
a standard police-oriented drama that , were it not for de niro's participation , would have likely wound up a tnt original . 
coupling disgracefully written dialogue with flailing bodily movements that substitute for acting , circuit is the awkwardly paced soap opera-

ish story . 
hollywood ending just isn't very funny . 
though clearly well-intentioned , this cross-cultural soap opera is painfully formulaic and stilted . 
a technical triumph and an extraordinary bore . 
i can easily imagine benigni's pinocchio becoming a christmas perennial . coal isn't as easy to come by as it used to be and this would be a 

worthy substitute for naughty children's stockings . 
two hours of junk . 
ends up being mostly about ravishing costumes , eye-filling , wide-screen production design and joan's wacky decision to stand by her man , no 

matter how many times he demonstrates that he's a disloyal satyr . 
self-congratulatory , misguided , and ill-informed , if nonetheless compulsively watchable . 
a clumsily manufactured exploitation flick , a style-free exercise in manipulation and mayhem . 
the whole affair , true story or not , feels incredibly hokey . . . [it] comes off like a hallmark commercial . 
what's missing is what we call the 'wow' factor . 
the nicest thing that can be said about stealing harvard ( which might have been called freddy gets molested by a dog ) is that it's not as 

obnoxious as tom green's freddie got fingered . 
 . . . tara reid plays a college journalist , but she looks like the six-time winner of the miss hawaiian tropic pageant , so i don't know what 

she's doing in here . . . 
the young stars are too cute ; the story and ensuing complications are too manipulative ; the message is too blatant ; the resolutions are too 

convenient . 
normally , rohmer's talky films fascinate me , but when he moves his setting to the past , and relies on a historical text , he loses the 

richness of characterization that makes his films so memorable . 
i highly recommend irwin , but not in the way this film showcases him . 
it's been 13 months and 295 preview screenings since i last walked out on a movie , but resident evil really earned my indignant , preemptive 

departure . 
this picture is mostly a lump of run-of-the-mill profanity sprinkled with a few remarks so geared toward engendering audience sympathy that you 

might think he was running for office -- or trying to win over a probation officer . 
malone does have a gift for generating nightmarish images that will be hard to burn out of your brain . but the movie's narrative hook is way 

too muddled to be an effectively chilling guilty pleasure . 
though it goes further than both , anyone who has seen the hunger or cat people will find little new here , but a tasty performance from 

vincent gallo lifts this tale of cannibal lust above the ordinary . 
a blair witch- style adventure that plays like a bad soap opera , with passable performances from everyone in the cast . 
diaz wears out her welcome in her most charmless performance
it is too bad that this likable movie isn't more accomplished . the actors try hard but come off too amateurish and awkward . 
the plot has a number of holes , and at times it's simply baffling . 
an ill-conceived jumble that's not scary , not smart and not engaging . 
brainless , but enjoyably over-the-top , the retro gang melodrama , deuces wild represents fifties teen-gang machismo in a way that borders on 

rough-trade homo-eroticism . 
gets bogged down by an overly sillified plot and stop-and-start pacing . 
utter mush . . . conceited pap . 
 " what john does is heroic , but we don't condone it , " one of the film's stars recently said , a tortuous comment that perfectly illustrates 

the picture's moral schizophrenia . 
like coming into a long-running , well-written television series where you've missed the first half-dozen episodes and probably won't see the 

next six . 
this is no " waterboy ! " 
its generic villains lack any intrigue ( other than their funny accents ) and the action scenes are poorly delivered . 
dripping with cliche and bypassing no opportunity to trivialize the material . 
hard-core slasher aficionados will find things to like . . . but overall the halloween series has lost its edge . 
stiff and schmaltzy and clumsily directed . 
the story the movie tells is of brian de palma's addiction to the junk-calorie suspense tropes that have all but ruined his career . 
too many improbabilities and rose-colored situations temper what could've been an impacting film . 
generic slasher-movie nonsense , but it's not without style . 
with tiny little jokes and nary an original idea , this sappy ethnic sleeper proves that not only blockbusters pollute the summer movie pool . 
it sticks rigidly to the paradigm , rarely permitting its characters more than two obvious dimensions and repeatedly placing them in contrived 

, well-worn situations . 
ever see one of those comedies that just seem like a bad idea from frame one ? 
once ice-t sticks his mug in the window of the couple's bmw and begins haranguing the wife in bad stage dialogue , all credibility flies out 

the window . 
the best drug addition movies are usually depressing but rewarding . quitting , however , manages just to be depressing , as the lead actor 

phones in his autobiographical performance . 
it would be great to see this turd squashed under a truck , preferably a semi . 
in the end , all you can do is admire the ensemble players and wonder what the point of it is . 
for most movies , 84 minutes is short , but this one feels like a life sentence . 
while glover , the irrepressible eccentric of river's edge , dead man and back to the future , is perfect casting for the role , he represents 

bartleby's main overall flaw . 
something has been lost in the translation . . . another routine hollywood frightfest in which the slack execution italicizes the absurdity of 

the premise . 
shatner is probably the funniest person in the film , which gives you an idea just how bad it was . 
tries so hard to be quirky and funny that the strain is all too evident . 
as immaculate as stuart little 2 is , it could be a lot better if it were , well , more adventurous . 
simply a re-hash of the other seven films . 
with jump cuts , fast editing and lots of pyrotechnics , yu clearly hopes to camouflage how bad his movie is . he fails . 
i found myself more appreciative of what the director was trying to do than of what he had actually done . 
a very depressing movie of many missed opportunities . 
goes on and on to the point of nausea . 
by turns numbingly dull-witted and disquietingly creepy . 
boy , has this franchise ever run out of gas . 
one problem with the movie , directed by joel schumacher , is that it jams too many prefabricated story elements into the running time . 
the comedy is nonexistent . 
 . . . a bland , pretentious mess . 
it's a pedestrian , flat drama that screams out 'amateur' in almost every frame . 
a bland animated sequel that hardly seems worth the effort . 
it's not just the vampires that are damned in queen of the damned -- the viewers will feel they suffer the same fate . 
if religious films aren't your bailiwick , stay away . otherwise , this could be a passable date film . 
this is the case of a pregnant premise being wasted by a script that takes few chances and manages to insult the intelligence of everyone in 

the audience . 
the pace and the visuals are so hyped up that a curious sense of menace informs everything . 
stuffy , full of itself , morally ambiguous and nothing to shout about . 
it is most of the things costner movies are known for ; it's sanctimonious , self-righteous and so eager to earn our love that you want to slap 

it . 
don't let the subtitles fool you ; the movie only proves that hollywood no longer has a monopoly on mindless action . 
chai's structure and pacing are disconcertingly slack . 
to be oblivious to the existence of this film would be very sweet indeed . 
the director , with his fake backdrops and stately pacing , never settles on a consistent tone . 
one just waits grimly for the next shock without developing much attachment to the characters . 
instead of panoramic sweep , kapur gives us episodic choppiness , undermining the story's emotional thrust . 
the director seems to take an unseemly pleasure in [the characters'] misery and at the same time to congratulate himself for having the guts to 

confront it . 
this dubious product of a college-spawned ( colgate u . ) comedy ensemble known as broken lizard plays like a mix of cheech and chong and chips 

. 
the movie doesn't think much of its characters , its protagonist , or of us . 
super troopers is an odd amalgam of comedy genres , existing somewhere between the often literal riffs of early zucker brothers/abrahams films 

, and the decidedly foul stylings of their post-modern contemporaries , the farrelly brothers . 
 . . . will always be remembered for the 9-11 terrorist attacks . after seeing the film , i can tell you that there's no other reason why 

anyone should bother remembering it . 
made me feel uneasy , even queasy , because [solondz's] cool compassion is on the border of bemused contempt . 
as a kind of colorful , dramatized pbs program , frida gets the job done . but , for that , why not watch a documentary ? 
with minimal imagination , you could restage the whole thing in your bathtub . 
nights feels more like a quickie tv special than a feature film . . . it's not even a tv special you'd bother watching past the second 

commercial break . 
although . . . visually striking and slickly staged , it's also cold , grey , antiseptic and emotionally desiccated . 
you can see where big bad love is trying to go , but it never quite gets there . 
friday after next is the kind of film that could only be made by african-americans because of its broad racial insensitivity towards african-

americans . 
it's not as awful as some of the recent hollywood trip tripe . . . but it's far from a groundbreaking endeavor . 
the only thing " swept away " is the one hour and thirty-three minutes spent watching this waste of time . 
one-sided documentary offers simplistic explanations to a very complex situation . . . . stylistically , the movie is a disaster . 
the corpse count ultimately overrides what little we learn along the way about vicarious redemption . 
as violent , profane and exploitative as the most offensive action flick you've ever seen . 
egoyan's work often elegantly considers various levels of reality and uses shifting points of view , but here he has constructed a film so 

labyrinthine that it defeats his larger purpose . 
life or something like it has its share of high points , but it misses too many opportunities . 
this is a truly , truly bad movie . 
despite bearing the paramount imprint , it's a bargain-basement european pickup . what's hard to understand is why anybody picked it up . wiser 

souls would have tactfully pretended not to see it and left it lying there
believability wasn't one of the film's virtues . 
sewer rats could watch this movie and be so skeeved out that they'd need a shower . 
the santa clause 2's plot may sound like it was co-written by mattel executives and lobbyists for the tinsel industry . 
his best film remains his shortest , the hole , which makes many of the points that this film does but feels less repetitive . 
just another disjointed , fairly predictable psychological thriller . 
 . . . stumbles over every cheap trick in the book trying to make the outrage come even easier . 
even the hastily and amateurishly drawn animation cannot engage . 
kung pow is oedekerk's realization of his childhood dream to be in a martial-arts flick , and proves that sometimes the dreams of youth should 

remain just that . 
busy urban comedy is clearly not zhang's forte , his directorial touch is neither light nor magical enough to bring off this kind of whimsy . 
well-meaning but inert . 
not completely loveable -- but what underdog movie since the bad news bears has been ? -- but certainly hard to hate . 
a movie that can't get sufficient distance from leroy's delusions to escape their maudlin influence . 
it's young guns meets goodfellas in this easily skippable hayseeds-vs . -greaseballs mob action-comedy . 
louiso lets the movie dawdle in classic disaffected-indie-film mode , and brother hoffman's script stumbles over a late-inning twist that just 

doesn't make sense . 
the movie straddles the fence between escapism and social commentary , and on both sides it falls short . 
the film is old-fashioned , occasionally charming and as subtle as boldface . 
can't get enough of libidinous young city dwellers ? try this obscenely bad dark comedy , so crass that it makes edward burns' sidewalks of new 

york look like oscar wilde . 
in the new guy , even the bull gets recycled . 
 . . . overly melodramatic . . . 
largely , this is a movie that also does it by the numbers . 
on top of a foundering performance , [madonna's] denied her own athleticism by lighting that emphasizes every line and sag . 
the result is an 'action film' mired in stasis . 
this is the first full scale wwii flick from hong kong's john woo . he's not good with people . 
patchy combination of soap opera , low-tech magic realism and , at times , ploddingly sociological commentary . 
[stevens is] so stoked to make an important film about human infidelity and happenstance that he tosses a kitchen sink onto a story already 

overladen with plot conceits . 
so boring that even its target audience talked all the way through it . 
one of the more glaring signs of this movie's servitude to its superstar is the way it skirts around any scenes that might have required 

genuine acting from ms . spears . 
hollywood ending is the most disappointing woody allen movie ever . he has a great cast and a great idea . but the execution is a flop with the 

exception of about six gags that really work . 
 . . . generically , forgettably pleasant from start to finish . 
it's just hard to believe that a life like this can sound so dull . 
when not wallowing in its characters' frustrations , the movie is busy contriving false , sitcom-worthy solutions to their problems . 
an overstylized , purÈed mÈlange of sex , psychology , drugs and philosophy . sometimes entertaining , sometimes indulgent -- but never less 

than pure wankery . 
'lovely and amazing , ' unhappily , is neither . . . excessively strained and contrived . 
ringu is a disaster of a story , full of holes and completely lacking in chills . ignore the reputation , and ignore the film . 
this one is a few bits funnier than malle's dud , if only because the cast is so engagingly messing around like slob city reductions of damon 

runyon crooks . 
'it's painful to watch witherspoon's talents wasting away inside unnecessary films like legally blonde and sweet home abomination , i mean , 

alabama . '
a plodding teen remake that's so mechanical you can smell the grease on the plot twists . 
trying to figure out the rules of the country bear universe -- when are bears bears and when are they like humans , only hairier -- would tax 

einstein's brain . 
even in terms of the low-grade cheese standards on which it operates , it never quite makes the grade as tawdry trash . 
amidst the action , the script carries arnold ( and the viewers ) into the forbidden zone of sympathizing with terrorist motivations by 

presenting the " other side of the story . " 
rife with nutty cliches and far too much dialogue . 
it's a 100-year old mystery that is constantly being interrupted by elizabeth hurley in a bathing suit . 
 . . . one big laugh , three or four mild giggles , and a whole lot of not much else . 
too intensely focused on the travails of being hal hartley to function as pastiche , no such thing is hartley's least accessible screed yet . 
kenneth branagh's energetic sweet-and-sour performance as a curmudgeonly british playwright grounds this overstuffed , erratic dramedy in which 

he and his improbably forbearing wife contend with craziness and child-rearing in los angeles . 
director uwe boll and writer robert dean klein fail to generate any interest in an unsympathetic hero caught up in an intricate plot that while 

cleverly worked out , cannot overcome blah characters . 
ms . phoenix is completely lacking in charm and charisma , and is unable to project either esther's initial anomie or her eventual awakening . 
the movie fails to portray its literarily talented and notorious subject as anything much more than a dirty old man . 
extremely bad . 
a clichÈd and shallow cautionary tale about the hard-partying lives of gay men . 
the fetid underbelly of fame has never looked uglier . 
a little weak -- and it isn't that funny . 
while it is welcome to see a chinese film depict a homosexual relationship in a mature and frank fashion , lan yu never catches dramatic fire . 
the script boasts some tart tv-insider humor , but the film has not a trace of humanity or empathy . 
despite the pyrotechnics , narc is strictly by the book . 
in both the writing and cutting , it does not achieve the kind of dramatic unity that transports you . you end up simply admiring this bit or 

that , this performance or that . 
cacoyannis is perhaps too effective in creating an atmosphere of dust-caked stagnation and labored gentility . 
worth seeing once , but its charm quickly fades . 
the original wasn't a good movie but this remake makes it look like a masterpiece ! 
one suspects that craven endorses they simply because this movie makes his own look much better by comparison . 
gere gives a good performance in a film that doesn't merit it . 
your appreciation of it will depend on what experiences you bring to it and what associations you choose to make . 
includes too much obvious padding . 
there's no palpable chemistry between lopez and male lead ralph fiennes , plus the script by working girl scribe kevin wade is workmanlike in 

the extreme . 
i'm not sure which half of dragonfly is worse : the part where nothing's happening , or the part where something's happening , but it's stupid 

. 
don't expect any subtlety from this latest entry in the increasingly threadbare gross-out comedy cycle . 
the only camouflage carvey should now be considering is a paper bag to wear over his head when he goes out into public , to avoid being 

recognized as the man who bilked unsuspecting moviegoers . 
shot like a postcard and overacted with all the boozy self-indulgence that brings out the worst in otherwise talented actors . . . 
spain's greatest star wattage doesn't overcome the tumult of maudlin tragedy . 
 . . . a movie that , quite simply , shouldn't have been made . 
conforms itself with creating a game of 'who's who' . . . where the characters' moves are often more predictable than their consequences . 
looks and feels like a low-budget hybrid of scarface or carlito's way . 
the script is a tired one , with few moments of joy rising above the stale material . 
suffers from all the excesses of the genre . 
the verdict : two bodies and hardly a laugh between them . 
the latest adam sandler assault and possibly the worst film of the year . 
downbeat , period-perfect biopic hammers home a heavy-handed moralistic message . 
while the film is competent , it's also uninspired , lacking the real talent and wit to elevate it beyond its formula to the level of classic 

romantic comedy to which it aspires . 
they ought to be a whole lot scarier than they are in this tepid genre offering . 
it's harmless , diverting fluff . but it's hard to imagine a more generic effort in the genre . 
it's just plain lurid when it isn't downright silly . 
comedy troupe broken lizard's first movie is very funny but too concerned with giving us a plot . 
pap invested in undergraduate doubling subtexts and ridiculous stabs at existentialism reminding of the discovery of the wizard of god in the 

fifth trek flick . 
a horror movie with seriously dumb characters , which somewhat dilutes the pleasure of watching them stalked by creepy-crawly bug things that 

live only in the darkness . 
it's a film with an idea buried somewhere inside its fabric , but never clearly seen or felt . 
'all in all , reign of fire will be a good ( successful ) rental . '
occasionally funny , sometimes inspiring , often boring . 
a movie in which two not very absorbing characters are engaged in a romance you can't wait to see end . 
the predominantly amateur cast is painful to watch , so stilted and unconvincing are the performances . 
who are 'they' ? well , they're 'they' . they're the unnamed , easily substitutable forces that serve as whatever terror the heroes of horror 

movies try to avoid . they exist for hushed lines like " they're back ! " , " they're out there ! " and " they're coming ! " 
elegantly crafted but emotionally cold , a puzzle whose intricate construction one can admire but is difficult to connect with on any deeper 

level . 
were dylan thomas alive to witness first-time director ethan hawke's strained chelsea walls , he might have been tempted to change his landmark 

poem to , 'do not go gentle into that good theatre . '
the story has its redundancies , and the young actors , not very experienced , are sometimes inexpressive . 
i'm sure the filmmaker would disagree , but , honestly , i don't see the point . it's a visual rorschach test and i must have failed . 
the film is really closer to porn than a serious critique of what's wrong with this increasingly pervasive aspect of gay culture . 
murder by numbers just doesn't add up . 
clare peploe's airless movie adaptation could use a little american pie-like irreverence . 
video games are more involving than this mess . 
clayburgh and tambor are charming performers ; neither of them deserves eric schaeffer . 
a pale xerox of other , better crime movies . 
 . . . a hokey piece of nonsense that tries too hard to be emotional . 
illiterate , often inert sci-fi action thriller . 
a perfect example of rancid , well-intentioned , but shamelessly manipulative movie making . 
the adventure doesn't contain half the excitement of balto , or quarter the fun of toy story 2 . 
essentially a collection of bits -- and they're all naughty . 
a mess . the screenplay does too much meandering , norton has to recite bland police procedural details , fiennes wanders around in an attempt 

to seem weird and distanced , hopkins looks like a drag queen . 
the screenplay by james eric , james horton and director peter o'fallon . . . is so pat it makes your teeth hurt . 
before it takes a sudden turn and devolves into a bizarre sort of romantic comedy , steven shainberg's adaptation of mary gaitskill's harrowing 

short story . . . is a brilliantly played , deeply unsettling experience . 
solaris is rigid and evasive in ways that soderbergh's best films , " erin brockovich , " " out of sight " and " ocean's eleven , " never were 

. 
seems like something american and european gay movies were doing 20 years ago . 
in the process of trimming the movie to an expeditious 84 minutes , director roger kumble seems to have dumped a whole lot of plot in favor of 

. . . outrageous gags . 
you can see the would-be surprises coming a mile away , and the execution of these twists is delivered with a hammer . thumbs down . 
the characters are paper thin and the plot is so cliched and contrived that it makes your least favorite james bond movie seem as cleverly 

plotted as the usual suspects . 
 . . . del toro maintains a dark mood that makes the film seem like something to endure instead of enjoy . 
the movie eventually snaps under the strain of its plot contrivances and its need to reassure . 
the real question this movie poses is not 'who ? ' but 'why ? '
now here's a sadistic bike flick that would have made vittorio de sica proud . 
a movie that's about as overbearing and over-the-top as the family it depicts . 
a movie in which laughter and self-exploitation merge into jolly soft-porn 'empowerment . '
occasionally interesting but essentially unpersuasive , a footnote to a still evolving story . 
if we're to slap protagonist genevieve leplouff because she's french , do we have that same option to slap her creators because they're 

clueless and inept ? 
moretti plays giovanni , a psychiatrist who predictably finds it difficult to sustain interest in his profession after the family tragedy . too 

predictably , in fact . 
alternative medicine obviously has its merits . . . but ayurveda does the field no favors . 
this thing works on no level whatsoever for me . 
it follows the basic plot trajectory of nearly every schwarzenegger film : someone crosses arnie . arnie blows things up . 
ice age posits a heretofore unfathomable question : is it possible for computer-generated characters to go through the motions ? 
an incoherent jumble of a film that's rarely as entertaining as it could have been . 
 . . . they missed the boat . 
more dutiful than enchanting . . . terribly episodic and lacking the spark of imagination that might have made it an exhilarating treat . 
laconic and very stilted in its dialogue , this indie flick never found its audience , probably because it's extremely hard to relate to any of 

the characters . 
the comedy death to smoochy is a rancorous curiosity : a movie without an apparent audience . 
barney's ideas about creation and identity don't really seem all that profound , at least by way of what can be gleaned from this three-hour 

endurance test built around an hour's worth of actual material . 
affleck merely creates an outline for a role he still needs to grow into , a role that ford effortlessly filled with authority . 
cinematic pyrotechnics aside , the only thing avary seems to care about are mean giggles and pulchritude . it makes sense that he went back to 

school to check out the girls -- his film is a frat boy's idea of a good time . 
the narrative is so consistently unimaginative that probably the only way to have saved the film is with the aid of those wisecracking mystery 

science theater 3000 guys . 
nothing more or less than an outright bodice-ripper -- it should have ditched the artsy pretensions and revelled in the entertaining shallows . 
a living testament to the power of the eccentric and the strange . the fact that it isn't very good is almost beside the point . 
feels less like a cousin to blade runner than like a bottom-feeder sequel in the escape from new york series . 
what might have been acceptable on the printed page of iles' book does not translate well to the screen . 
if oscar had a category called best bad film you thought was going to be really awful but wasn't , guys would probably be duking it out with 

the queen of the damned for the honor . 
a poky and pseudo-serious exercise in sham actor workshops and an affected malaise . 
mediocre fable from burkina faso . 
fessenden has nurtured his metaphors at the expense of his narrative , but he does display an original talent . 
since the movie is based on a nicholas sparks best seller , you know death is lurking around the corner , just waiting to spoil things . 
bottom-rung new jack city wannabe . 
fincher takes no apparent joy in making movies , and he gives none to the audience . 
it's mildly amusing , but i certainly can't recommend it . 
nicholas nickleby celebrates the human spirit with such unrelenting dickensian decency that it turned me ( horrors ! ) into scrooge . 
fear dot com is more frustrating than a modem that disconnects every 10 seconds . 
full of flatulence jokes and mild sexual references , kung pow ! is the kind of movie that's critic-proof , simply because it aims so low . 
may cause you to bite your tongue to keep from laughing at the ridiculous dialog or the oh-so convenient plot twists . 
there are just too many characters saying too many clever things and getting into too many pointless situations . where's the movie here ? 
a dark , dull thriller with a parting shot that misfires . 
lacking substance and soul , crossroads comes up shorter than britney's cutoffs . 
cassavetes thinks he's making dog day afternoon with a cause , but all he's done is to reduce everything he touches to a shrill , didactic 

cartoon . 
buries an interesting storyline about morality and the choices we make underneath such a mountain of clichÈs and borrowed images that it might 

more accurately be titled mr . chips off the old block . 
although sensitive to a fault , it's often overwritten , with a surfeit of weighty revelations , flowery dialogue , and nostalgia for the past 

and roads not taken . 
it's so badly made on every level that i'm actually having a hard time believing people were paid to make it . 
without non-stop techno or the existential overtones of a kieslowski morality tale , maelstr?m is just another winter sleepers . 
nicks , seemingly uncertain what's going to make people laugh , runs the gamut from stale parody to raunchy sex gags to formula romantic comedy 

. 
'a' for creativity but comes across more as a sketch for a full-length comedy . 
if there's one thing this world needs less of , it's movies about college that are written and directed by people who couldn't pass an entrance 

exam . 
the script kicks in , and mr . hartley's distended pace and foot-dragging rhythms follow . 
[e]ventually , every idea in this film is flushed down the latrine of heroism . 
i am sorry that i was unable to get the full brunt of the comedy . 
no telegraphing is too obvious or simplistic for this movie . 
looks and feels like a project better suited for the small screen . 
in its best moments , resembles a bad high school production of grease , without benefit of song . 
indifferently implausible popcorn programmer of a movie . 
it's inoffensive , cheerful , built to inspire the young people , set to an unending soundtrack of beach party pop numbers and aside from its 

remarkable camerawork and awesome scenery , it's about as exciting as a sunburn . 
his comedy premises are often hackneyed or just plain crude , calculated to provoke shocked laughter , without following up on a deeper level . 
christina ricci comedy about sympathy , hypocrisy and love is a misfire . 
at times , the suspense is palpable , but by the end there's a sense that the crux of the mystery hinges on a technicality that strains 

credulity and leaves the viewer haunted by the waste of potential . 
they should have called it gutterball . 
thekids will probably stay amused at the kaleidoscope of big , colorful characters . mom and dad can catch some quality naptime along the way . 
it's too self-important and plodding to be funny , and too clipped and abbreviated to be an epic . 
the best that can be said about the work here of scottish director ritchie . . . is that he obviously doesn't have his heart in it . 
less dizzying than just dizzy , the jaunt is practically over before it begins . 
slick piece of cross-promotion . 
taylor appears to have blown his entire budget on soundtrack rights and had nothing left over for jokes . 
it believes it's revealing some great human truths , when , in reality , it's churning ground that has long passed the point of being fertile . 
by turns pretentious , fascinating , ludicrous , provocative and vainglorious . 
it all drags on so interminably it's like watching a miserable relationship unfold in real time . 
villeneuve spends too much time wallowing in bibi's generic angst ( there are a lot of shots of her gazing out windows ) . 
[t]here's only so much anyone can do with a florid , overplotted , anne rice rock 'n' roll vampire novel before the built-in silliness of the 

whole affair defeats them . 
it's another video movie photographed like a film , with the bad lighting that's often written off as indie film naturalism . 
the techno tux is good for a few laughs , as are chan and hewitt , but when such a good design turns out to be a cheap knockoff , we can't 

recommend anything but a rental for the tuxedo . 
i got a headache watching this meaningless downer . 
apart from dazzling cinematography , we've seen just about everything in blue crush in one form or the other . 
too much of the humor falls flat . 
detox is ultimately a pointless endeavor . 
van wilder doesn't bring anything new to the proverbial table , but it does possess a coherence absent in recent crass-a-thons like tomcats , 

freddy got fingered , and slackers . 
the piquant story needs more dramatic meat on its bones . 
very special effects , brilliantly bold colors and heightened reality can't hide the giant achilles' heel in " stuart little 2 " : there's just 

no story , folks . 
the plot combines the blues brothers and almost famous ( but with bears , and a g rating ) , with an excruciating dollop of disney 

sentimentality mixed in for good measure . 
no way i can believe this load of junk . 
 " roger michell ( " notting hill " ) directs a morality thriller . " 
it's dumb , but more importantly , it's just not scary . 
there is no pleasure in watching a child suffer . just embarrassment and a vague sense of shame . 
the movie's accumulated force still feels like an ugly knot tightening in your stomach . but is that knot from dramatic tension or a symptom of 

artistic malnutrition ? 
even with a green mohawk and a sheet of fire-red flame tattoos covering his shoulder , however , kilmer seems to be posing , rather than acting 

. and that leaves a hole in the center of the salton sea . 
there's just no currency in deriding james bond for being a clichÈd , doddering , misogynistic boy's club . 
when the film ended , i felt tired and drained and wanted to lie on my own deathbed for a while . 
full of witless jokes , dealing in broad stereotypes and outrageously unbelievable scenarios , and saddled with a general air of misogyny
the film's hackneyed message is not helped by the thin characterizations , nonexistent plot and pretentious visual style . 
the iditarod lasts for days - this just felt like it did . 
 it feels like an after-school special gussied up with some fancy special effects , and watching its rote plot points connect is about as 

exciting as gazing at an egg timer for 93 minutes . 
this movie is maddening . it conveys a simple message in a visual style that is willfully overwrought . 
should have been someone else-
the film is based on truth and yet there is something about it that feels incomplete , as if the real story starts just around the corner . 
why make a documentary about these marginal historical figures ? wouldn't one about their famous dad , author of death in venice , etc . , be 

more valuable ? 
the lower your expectations , the more you'll enjoy it . 
rarely has leukemia looked so shimmering and benign . 
Ö is an arthritic attempt at directing by callie khouri . i had to look away - this was god awful . 
even in this less-than-magic kingdom , reese rules . 
velocity represents everything wrong with ''independent film'' as a commodified , sold-out concept on the american filmmaking scene . 
just one bad idea after another . 
because of an unnecessary and clumsy last scene , 'swimfan' left me with a very bad feeling . 
though moonlight mile is replete with acclaimed actors and actresses and tackles a subject that's potentially moving , the movie is too 

predictable and too self-conscious to reach a level of high drama . 
a movie that hovers somewhere between an acute character study and a trite power struggle . 
i can't recommend it . but it's surprisingly harmless . 
corpus collosum -- while undeniably interesting -- wore out its welcome well before the end credits rolled about 45 minutes in . 
the last 20 minutes are somewhat redeeming , but most of the movie is the same teenage american road-trip drek we've seen before - only this 

time you have to read the fart jokes
it's hard to like a film about a guy who is utterly unlikeable , and shiner , starring michael caine as an aging british boxing promoter 

desperate for a taste of fame and fortune , is certainly that . 
a by-the-numbers effort that won't do much to enhance the franchise . 
involves two mysteries -- one it gives away and the other featuring such badly drawn characters that its outcome hardly matters . 
overall the film feels like a low-budget tv pilot that could not find a buyer to play it on the tube . 
it's of the quality of a lesser harrison ford movie - six days , seven nights , maybe , or that dreadful sabrina remake . 
it appears that something has been lost in the translation to the screen . 
despite all evidence to the contrary , this clunker has somehow managed to pose as an actual feature movie , the kind that charges full 

admission and gets hyped on tv and purports to amuse small children and ostensible adults . 
shrewd but pointless . 
an unclassifiably awful study in self- and audience-abuse . 
sluggish , tonally uneven . 
this movie is something of an impostor itself , stretching and padding its material in a blur of dead ends and distracting camera work . 
hey arnold ! the movie could have been made 40 years ago , and parents' appreciation of it may depend on whether they consider that a good 

thing . 
this one is definitely one to skip , even for horror movie fanatics . 
excessive , profane , packed with cartoonish violence and comic-strip characters . 
once the 50 year old benigni appears as the title character , we find ourselves longing for the block of wood to come back . 
a working class " us vs . them " opera that leaves no heartstring untugged and no liberal cause unplundered . 
if the movie succeeds in instilling a wary sense of 'there but for the grace of god , ' it is far too self-conscious to draw you deeply into 

its world . 
there are simply too many ideas floating around -- part farce , part sliding doors , part pop video -- and yet failing to exploit them . 
it takes a strange kind of laziness to waste the talents of robert forster , anne meara , eugene levy , and reginald veljohnson all in the same 

movie . 
we haven't seen such hilarity since say it isn't so ! 
expect the same-old , lame-old slasher nonsense , just with different scenery . 
the cold turkey would've been a far better title . 
the idea of 49-year-old roberto benigni playing the wooden boy pinocchio is scary enough . the reality of the new live-action pinocchio he 

directed , cowrote and starred in borders on the grotesque . 
the ga-zillionth airhead movie about a wife in distress who resorts to desperate measures . 
zaidan's script has barely enough plot to string the stunts together and not quite enough characterization to keep the faces straight . 
try as i may , i can't think of a single good reason to see this movie , even though everyone in my group extemporaneously shouted , 'thank you 

! ' when leguizamo finally plugged an irritating character late in the movie . 
while it's nice to watch a movie that hasn't been focus-grouped into tedium , yu's cinematic alchemy produces nearly as much lead as gold . 
it treats women like idiots . 
though catch me if you can isn't badly made , the fun slowly leaks out of the movie . 
just an average comedic dateflick but not a waste of time . 
a valueless kiddie paean to pro basketball underwritten by the nba . 
impostor has a handful of thrilling moments and a couple of good performances , but the movie doesn't quite fly . for starters , the story is 

just too slim . 
so much facile technique , such cute ideas , so little movie . 
the experience of going to a film festival is a rewarding one ; the experiencing of sampling one through this movie is not . 
the film takes the materials of human tragedy and dresses them in lovely costumes , southern california locations and star power . 
it has its moments of swaggering camaraderie , but more often just feels generic , derivative and done to death . 
almost gags on its own gore . 
how do you spell clichÈ ? 
it's sweet , harmless , dumb , occasionally funny and about as compelling as a fishing show . 
the moviegoing equivalent of going to a dinner party and being forced to watch the host and hostess's home video of their baby's birth . 
while [hill] has learned new tricks , the tricks alone are not enough to salvage this lifeless boxing film . 
in the real world , an actor this uncharismatically beautiful would have a rÈsumÈ loaded with credits like " girl in bar #3 . " 
too much of it feels unfocused and underdeveloped . 
under 15 ? a giggle a minute . over age 15 ? big fat waste of time . 
hey arnold ! the movie is what happens when you blow up small potatoes to 10 times their natural size , and it ain't pretty . 
sometimes seems less like storytelling than something the otherwise compelling director needed to get off his chest . 
this is not the undisputed worst boxing movie ever , but it's certainly not a champion - the big loser is the audience . 
you really have to wonder how on earth anyone , anywhere could have thought they'd make audiences guffaw with a script as utterly diabolical as 

this . 
in the end , we are left with something like two ships passing in the night rather than any insights into gay love , chinese society or the 

price one pays for being dishonest . 
chokes on its own depiction of upper-crust decorum . 
well-nigh unendurable . . . though the picture strains to become cinematic poetry , it remains depressingly prosaic and dull . 
i thought my own watch had stopped keeping time as i slogged my way through clockstoppers . 
while much of the cast has charm -- especially allodi and nolden -- the performers are sunk by the film's primitive approach to the mechanics 

of comedy . 
this directorial debut from music video show-off higuchinsky is all flash . 
yes , ballistic is silly . unfortunately , it's not silly fun unless you enjoy really bad movies . 
the twist that ends the movie is the one with the most emotional resonance , but twists are getting irritating , and this is the kind of 

material where the filmmakers should be very careful about raising eyebrows . 
the longer the movie goes , the worse it gets , but it's actually pretty good in the first few minutes . 
while it's genuinely cool to hear characters talk about early rap records ( sugar hill gang , etc . ) , the constant referencing of hip-hop 

arcana can alienate even the savviest audiences . 
not only unfunny , but downright repellent . 
care deftly captures the wonder and menace of growing up , but he never really embraces the joy of fuhrman's destructive escapism or the 

grace-in-rebellion found by his characters . 
forced , familiar and thoroughly condescending . 
does little more than play an innocuous game of fill-in- the-blanks with a tragic past . 
k-19 exploits our substantial collective fear of nuclear holocaust to generate cheap hollywood tension . 
has a long and clunky ending . . . which forces the audience to fidget through ten pseudo-serious minutes while waiting for the ending credits 

and the deleted scenes montage to break the audience's awkward silence
a ragbag of promising ideas and failed narrative , of good acting and plain old bad filmmaking . 
whaley's determination to immerse you in sheer , unrelenting wretchedness is exhausting . 
uncommonly stylish but equally silly . . . the picture fails to generate much suspense , nor does it ask searching enough questions to justify 

its pretensions . 
the entire movie is about a boring , sad man being boring and sad . 
the plot convolutions ultimately add up to nothing more than jerking the audience's chain . 
confirms the nagging suspicion that ethan hawke would be even worse behind the camera than he is in front of it . 
made with no discernible craft and monstrously sanctimonious in dealing with childhood loss . 
it's a trifle of a movie , with a few laughs surrounding an unremarkable soft center . 
holden caulfield did it better . 
a synthesis of cliches and absurdities that seems positively decadent in its cinematic flash and emptiness . 
oh come on . like you couldn't smell this turkey rotting from miles away . 
if it's seldom boring , well , it's also rarely coherent . 
simplistic fluff-ball of whimsy . 
not exactly the bees knees
it does nothing new with the old story , except to show fisticuffs in this sort of stop-go slow motion that makes the gang rumbles look like 

they're being streamed over a 28k modem . 
the kind of spectacularly misconceived enterprise that only a sophisticated cinephile could have perpetrated . 
makes for some truly odd , at times confusing , kids entertainment . . . but at least this time there's some centered storytelling to go along 

with all the weird stuff . 
the film contains no good jokes , no good scenes , barely a moment when carvey's saturday night live-honed mimicry rises above the level of 

embarrassment . 
jacquot's rendering of puccini's tale of devotion and double-cross is more than just a filmed opera . in his first stab at the form , jacquot 

takes a slightly anarchic approach that works only sporadically . 
chabrol has taken promising material for a black comedy and turned it instead into a somber chamber drama . 
it's as if you're watching a movie that was made in 1978 but not released then because it was so weak , and it has been unearthed and released 

now , when it has become even weaker . 
this is nothing but familiar territory . 
in execution , this clever idea is far less funny than the original , killers from space . 
one of the more irritating cartoons you will see this , or any , year . 
a broad , melodramatic estrogen opera that's pretty toxic in its own right . 
too slow , too long and too little happens . 
the film's few ideas are stretched to the point of evaporation ; the whole central section is one big chase that seems to have no goal and no 

urgency . it's just filler . 
sacrifices the value of its wealth of archival foot-age with its less-than-objective stance . 
utterly lacking in charm , wit and invention , roberto benigni's pinocchio is an astonishingly bad film . 
a hamfisted romantic comedy that makes our girl the hapless facilitator of an extended cheap shot across the mason-dixon line . 
scores no points for originality , wit , or intelligence . it's a cookie-cutter movie , a cut-and-paste job . 
they takes a long time to get to its gasp-inducing ending . 
barely gets off the ground . 
even on those rare occasions when the narrator stops yammering , miller's hand often feels unsure . 
pumpkin means to be an outrageous dark satire on fraternity life , but its ambitions far exceed the abilities of writer adam larson broder and 

his co-director , tony r . abrams , in their feature debut . 
at its best , queen is campy fun like the vincent price horror classics of the '60s . at its worst , it implodes in a series of very bad 

special effects . 
from the opening scenes , it's clear that all about the benjamins is a totally formulaic movie . 
it takes a certain kind of horror movie to qualify as 'worse than expected , ' but ghost ship somehow manages to do exactly that . 
on the bright side , it contains jesse ventura's best work since the xfl . 
despite impeccable acting . . . and a script that takes some rather unexpected ( even , at times , preposterous ) turns , love is just too , 

too precious in the end . 
a tv style murder mystery with a few big screen moments ( including one that seems to be made for a different film altogether ) . 
by getting myself wrapped up in the visuals and eccentricities of many of the characters , i found myself confused when it came time to get to 

the heart of the movie . 
too often , the viewer isn't reacting to humor so much as they are wincing back in repugnance . 
what's next ? the porky's revenge : ultimate edition ? 
dilbert without the right-on satiric humor . 
manages to show life in all of its banality when the intention is quite the opposite . 
do not see this film . 
minority report is exactly what the title indicates , a report . 
delivers the same old same old , tarted up with latin flava and turned out by hollywood playas . 
if you believe any of this , i can make you a real deal on leftover enron stock that will double in value a week from friday . 
to call the other side of heaven " appalling " would be to underestimate just how dangerous entertainments like it can be . 
in exactly 89 minutes , most of which passed as slowly as if i'd been sitting naked on an igloo , formula 51 sank from quirky to jerky to utter 

turkey . 
if only the story about a multi-million dollar con bothered to include the con . 
i'd have to say the star and director are the big problems here . 
without the dark spookiness of crystal lake camp , the horror concept completely loses its creepy menace . 
it's like every bad idea that's ever gone into an after-school special compiled in one place , minus those daytime programs' slickness and 

sophistication ( and who knew they even had any ? ) . 
while the resident evil games may have set new standards for thrills , suspense , and gore for video games , the movie really only succeeds in 

the third of these . 
for close to two hours the audience is forced to endure three terminally depressed , mostly inarticulate , hyper dysfunctional families for the 

price of one . 
to my taste , the film's comic characters come perilously close to being amoses and andys for a new generation . 
what the director can&#8217 ; t do is make either of val kilmer&#8217 ; s two personas interesting or worth caring about . 
in an effort , i suspect , not to offend by appearing either too serious or too lighthearted , it offends by just being wishy-washy . 
it's difficult to imagine the process that produced such a script , but here's guessing that spray cheese and underarm noises played a crucial 

role . 
harland williams is so funny in drag he should consider permanent sex-reassignment . 
 . . . nothing scary here except for some awful acting and lame special effects . 
it's not that kung pow isn't funny some of the time -- it just isn't any funnier than bad martial arts movies are all by themselves , without 

all oedekerk's impish augmentation . 
a very long movie , dull in stretches , with entirely too much focus on meal preparation and igloo construction . 
not an objectionable or dull film ; it merely lacks everything except good intentions . 
a science-fiction pastiche so lacking in originality that if you stripped away its inspirations there would be precious little left . 
once [kim] begins to overplay the shock tactics and bait-and-tackle metaphors , you may decide it's too high a price to pay for a shimmering 

picture postcard . 
the words , 'frankly , my dear , i don't give a damn , ' have never been more appropriate . 
what's next : " my mother the car ? " 
all the amped-up tony hawk-style stunts and thrashing rap-metal can't disguise the fact that , really , we've been here , done that . 
a sequel that's much too big for its britches . 
so unremittingly awful that labeling it a dog probably constitutes cruelty to canines . 
what was once original has been co-opted so frequently that it now seems pedestrian . 
a perplexing example of promise unfulfilled , despite many charming moments . 
for all the writhing and wailing , tears , rage and opium overdoses , there's no sense of actual passion being washed away in love's 

dissolution . 
a coarse and stupid gross-out . 
a nightmare date with a half-formed wit done a great disservice by a lack of critical distance and a sad trust in liberal arts college bumper 

sticker platitudes . 
doesn't offer much besides glib soullessness , raunchy language and a series of brutal set pieces . . . that raise the bar on stylized screen 

violence . 
there's something with potential here , but the movie decides , like lavinia , to go the conservative route . 
it's one pussy-ass world when even killer-thrillers revolve around group therapy sessions . 
the stripped-down approach does give the film a certain timeless quality , but the measured pace and lack of dramatic inflection can also seem 

tedious . 
but the power of these [subjects] is obscured by the majority of the film that shows a stationary camera on a subject that could be mistaken 

for giving a public oration , rather than contributing to a film's narrative . 
rarely has so much money delivered so little entertainment . 
tries to add some spice to its quirky sentiments but the taste is all too familiar . 
paid in full is so stale , in fact , that its most vibrant scene is one that uses clips from brian de palma's scarface . that's a cheat . 
harrison's flowers puts its heart in the right place , but its brains are in no particular place at all . 
this re-do is so dumb and so exploitative in its violence that , ironically , it becomes everything that the rather clumsy original was railing 

against . 
a string of rehashed sight gags based in insipid vulgarity . 
the movie is dawn of the dead crossed with john carpenter's ghosts of mars , with zombies not as ghoulish as the first and trains not as big as 

the second . 
basically a static series of semi-improvised ( and semi-coherent ) raps between the stars . 
too restrained to be a freak show , too mercenary and obvious to be cerebral , too dull and pretentious to be engaging . . . the isle defies an 

easy categorization . 
an unpredictable blend of gal-pal smart talk , romantic comedy and dark tragedy that bites off considerably more than writer/director john 

mckay can swallow . 
it's one of those baseball pictures where the hero is stoic , the wife is patient , the kids are as cute as all get-out and the odds against 

success are long enough to intimidate , but short enough to make a dream seem possible . 
 " the time machine " is a movie that has no interest in itself . it doesn't believe in itself , it has no sense of humorÖit's just plain 

bored . 
 . . . a hollow joke told by a cinematic gymnast having too much fun embellishing the misanthropic tale to actually engage it . 
a morose little soap opera about three vapid , insensitive people who take turns hurting each other . it's a feature-length adaptation of one 

of those " can this marriage be saved ? " columns from ladies home journal . . . 
the film's essentially over by the meet-cute . 
i'm sure if you're a hartley fan , you might enjoy yourself . . . me , i didn't care for it . 
it's about following your dreams , no matter what your parents think . socrates motions for hemlock . 
the script isn't very good ; not even someone as gifted as hoffman ( the actor ) can make it work . 
walter hill's pulpy , stylized boxing melodrama undisputed nearly overcomes its questionable in-the-ring match-up with solid fight choreography 

and gritty prison authenticity . 
it has all the excitement of eating oatmeal . 
it's hard to know whether or not to recommend this film because for every thing it does right there's at least one and occasionally two things 

it gets ever so wrong . 
although there are several truly jolting scares , there's also an abundance of hackneyed dialogue and more silly satanic business than you can 

shake a severed limb at . 
i'll bet the video game is a lot more fun than the film . 
star trek : nemesis meekly goes where nearly every star trek movie has gone before . wince-inducing dialogue , thrift-shop costumes , 

prosthetic makeup by silly putty and kmart blue-light-special effects all conspire to test trekkie loyalty . 
like all abstract art , the film does not make this statement in an easily accessible way , and -- unless prewarned -- it would be very 

possible for a reasonably intelligent person to sit through its tidal wave of imagery and not get this vision at all . 
i don't mind having my heartstrings pulled , but don't treat me like a fool . 
 . . . although this idea is " new " the results are tired . 
i'm guessing the director is a magician . after all , he took three minutes of dialogue , 30 seconds of plot and turned them into a 90-minute 

movie that feels five hours long . 
an unencouraging threefold expansion on the former mtv series , accompanying the stunt-hungry dimwits in a random series of collected gags , 

pranks , pratfalls , dares , injuries , etc . 
the script is a dim-witted pairing of teen-speak and animal gibberish . 
its well of thorn and vinegar ( and simple humanity ) has long been plundered by similar works featuring the insight and punch this picture so 

conspicuously lacks . 
for all its impressive craftsmanship , and despite an overbearing series of third-act crescendos , lily chou-chou never really builds up a head 

of emotional steam . 
don't be fooled by the impressive cast list - eye see you is pure junk . 
not since freddy got fingered has a major release been so painful to sit through . 
the documentary does little , apart from raising the topic , to further stoke the conversation . 
plays like a volatile and overlong w magazine fashion spread . 
a better title , for all concerned , might be swept under the rug . 
this movie seems to have been written using mad-libs . there can be no other explanation . hilariously inept and ridiculous . 
vera's technical prowess ends up selling his film short ; he smoothes over hard truths even as he uncovers them . 
[a] shapeless blob of desperate entertainment . 
feels too formulaic and too familiar to produce the transgressive thrills of early underground work . 
generic thriller junk . teens only . 
given how heavy-handed and portent-heavy it is , this could be the worst thing soderbergh has ever done . 
a by-the-numbers patient/doctor pic that covers all the usual ground
a dumb movie with dumb characters doing dumb things and you have to be really dumb not to see where this is going . 
stealing harvard aspires to comedic grand larceny but stands convicted of nothing more than petty theft of your time . 
pretension , in its own way , is a form of bravery . for this reason and this reason only -- the power of its own steadfast , hoity-toity 

convictions -- chelsea walls deserves a medal . 
with the exception of some fleetingly amusing improvisations by cedric the entertainer as perry's boss , there isn't a redeeming moment here . 
it's a grab bag of genres that don't add up to a whole lot of sense . 
movie fans , get ready to take off . . . the other direction . 
[director] o'fallon manages to put some lovely pictures up on the big screen , but his skill at telling a story -- he also contributed to the 

screenplay -- falls short . 
the intent is almost exactly the same [as the full monty] . all that's missing is the spontaneity , originality and delight . 
no one but a convict guilty of some truly heinous crime should have to sit through the master of disguise . 
even the finest chef can't make a hotdog into anything more than a hotdog , and robert de niro can't make this movie anything more than a 

trashy cop buddy comedy . 
there's too much falseness to the second half , and what began as an intriguing look at youth fizzles into a dull , ridiculous attempt at 

heart-tugging . 
it's not without its pleasures , but i'll stick with the tune . 
miller is playing so free with emotions , and the fact that children are hostages to fortune , that he makes the audience hostage to his 

swaggering affectation of seriousness . 
despite the evocative aesthetics evincing the hollow state of modern love life , the film never percolates beyond a monotonous whine . 
more maudlin than sharp . 
this is an egotistical endeavor from the daughter of horror director dario argento ( a producer here ) , but her raw performance and utter 

fearlessness make it strangely magnetic . 
it's slow -- very , very slow . it's not the ultimate depression-era gangster movie . that's pure pr hype . 
characters still need to function according to some set of believable and comprehensible impulses , no matter how many drugs they do or how 

much artistic license avary employs . 
comes . . . uncomfortably close to coasting in the treads of the bicycle thief . 
visually rather stunning , but ultimately a handsome-looking bore , the true creativity would have been to hide treasure planet entirely and 

completely reimagine it . 
stealing harvard is evidence that the farrelly bros . -- peter and bobby -- and their brand of screen comedy are wheezing to an end , along 

with green's half-hearted movie career . 
there seems to be no clear path as to where the story's going , or how long it's going to take to get there . 
if you're a wwf fan , or you related to the people who watched the robots getting butchered in a . i . , you'll probably like rollerball . 
i don't think i laughed out loud once . and when you're talking about a slapstick comedy , that's a pretty big problem . 
it's so mediocre , despite the dynamic duo on the marquee , that we just can't get no satisfaction . 
slapstick buffoonery can tickle many a preschooler's fancy , but when it costs a family of four about $40 to see a film in theaters , why spend 

money on a dog like this when you can rent a pedigree instead ? 
 . . . turns so unforgivably trite in its last 10 minutes that anyone without a fortified sweet tooth will likely go into sugar shock . 
the notion that bombing buildings is the funniest thing in the world goes entirely unexamined in this startlingly unfunny comedy . 
my reaction in a word : disappointment . his last movie was poetically romantic and full of indelible images , but his latest has nothing going 

for it . 
it kinda works and qualifies as cool at times , but is just too lame to work or be cool at others . 
sustains its dreamlike glide through a succession of cheesy coincidences and voluptuous cheap effects , not the least of which is rebecca 

romijn-stamos . 
intriguing documentary which is emotionally diluted by focusing on the story's least interesting subject . 
a non-mystery mystery . 
feels haphazard , as if the writers mistakenly thought they could achieve an air of frantic spontaneity by simply tossing in lots of characters 

doing silly stuff and stirring the pot . 
what an embarrassment . 
for each chuckle there are at least 10 complete misses , many coming from the amazingly lifelike tara reid , whose acting skills are comparable 

to a cardboard cutout . 
in its own way , joshua is as blasphemous and nonsensical as a luis bu?uel film without the latter's attendant intelligence , poetry , passion 

, and genius . 
i've always dreamed of attending cannes , but after seeing this film , it's not that big a deal . 
the vintage is pure '87 , with a halfhearted twist on its cautionary message : fatal attraction = don't have an affair with a nutjob ; 

unfaithful = don't if you're married to one . 
a workshop mentality prevails . 
it cannot be enjoyed , even on the level that one enjoys a bad slasher flick , primarily because it is dull . yes , dull . 
pumpkin wants to have it both ways . 
director uwe boll and the actors provide scant reason to care in this crude '70s throwback . 
[w]hile long on amiable monkeys and worthy environmentalism , jane goodall's wild chimpanzees is short on the thrills the oversize medium 

demands . 
outer-space buffs might love this film , but others will find its pleasures intermittent . 
this piece of channel 5 grade trash is , quite frankly , an insult to the intelligence of the true genre enthusiast . 
an occasionally funny , but overall limp , fish-out-of-water story . 
a bloated gasbag thesis grotesquely impressed by its own gargantuan aura of self-importance . . . 
it's mighty tedious for the viewer who has to contend with unpleasant characters , hit-and-miss performances and awkwardly staged scenes . 
as a rumor of angels reveals itself to be a sudsy tub of supernatural hokum , not even ms . redgrave's noblest efforts can redeem it from 

hopeless sentimentality . 
new best friend's playboy-mansion presentation of college life is laugh-out-loud ludicrous . 
an appalling 'ace ventura' rip-off that somehow manages to bring together kevin pollak , former wrestler chyna and dolly parton . if any of 

them list this 'credit' on their resumes in the future , that'll be much funnier than anything in the film . . . 
the humor is forced and heavy-handed , and occasionally simply unpleasant . 
scorsese at his best makes gangster films that are equally lovely but also relentlessly brutal and brutally intelligent ; perdition , meanwhile 

, reads more like driving miss daisy than goodfellas . 
while the script starts promisingly , it loses steam towards the middle and never really develops beyond attacking obvious target . 
as the latest bid in the tv-to-movie franchise game , i spy makes its big-screen entry with little of the nervy originality of its 

groundbreaking small-screen progenitor . 
this isn't even madonna's swept away . this is her blue lagoon . 
the director knows how to apply textural gloss , but his portrait of sex-as-war is strictly sitcom . 
 . . . the film suffers from a lack of humor ( something needed to balance out the violence ) . . . 
burns never really harnesses to full effect the energetic cast . 
an overemphatic , would-be wacky , ultimately tedious sex farce . 
has all the depth of a wading pool . 
this is the sort of burly action flick where one coincidence pummels another , narrative necessity is a drunken roundhouse , and whatever 

passes for logic is a factor of the last plot device left standing . 
the so-inept- it's-surreal dubbing ( featuring the voices of glenn close , regis philbin and breckin meyer ) brings back memories of cheesy old 

godzilla flicks . 
 . . . the movie is just a plain old monster . 
if this disposable tissue has one wild card , it's john turturro , who's simply fab as a spanish butler with a foot fetish . 
one long string of cliches . 
a noble failure . 
fancy a real downer ? [leigh] lays it on so thick this time that it feels like a suicide race . 
professionally speaking , it's tempting to jump ship in january to avoid ridiculous schlock like this shoddy suspense thriller . 
nelson's brutally unsentimental approach . . . sucks the humanity from the film , leaving behind an horrific but weirdly unemotional spectacle 

. 
weaves a spell over you , with its disturbingly close-up look at damaged psyches and its subtle undercurrents of danger . but its awkward 

structure keeps breaking the spell . 
at once half-baked and overheated . 
there's a solid woman- finding-herself story somewhere in here , but you'd have to dig pretty deep to uncover it . 
i still can't relate to stuart : he's a mouse , for cryin' out loud , and all he does is milk it with despondent eyes and whine that nobody 

treats him human enough . 
[serry] wants to blend politics and drama , an admirable ambition . it's too bad that the helping hand he uses to stir his ingredients is also 

a heavy one . 
by the miserable standards to which the slasher genre has sunk , . . . actually pretty good . of course , by more objective measurements it's 

still quite bad . 
the only entertainment you'll derive from this choppy and sloppy affair will be from unintentional giggles ñ several of them . 
sam mendes has become valedictorian at the school for soft landings and easy ways out . 
l·stima por schwarzenegger , pero es hora de que deje la estafeta a las nuevas generaciones . 
exactly what it claims to be -- a simple diversion for the kids . 
its story may be a thousand years old , but why did it have to seem like it took another thousand to tell it to us ? 
woefully pretentious . 
the problem with this film is that it lacks focus . i sympathize with the plight of these families , but the movie doesn't do a very good job 

conveying the issue at hand . 
a momentary escape from the summer heat and the sedentary doldrums that set in at this time of year . 
 . . . think of it as american pie on valium . 
dull , lifeless , and amateurishly assembled . 
puportedly " based on true events , " a convolution of language that suggests it's impossible to claim that it is " based on a true story " 

with a straight face . 
 . . . a plotline that's as lumpy as two-day old porridge . . . the filmmakers' paws , sad to say , were all over this " un-bear-able " project 

! 
 . . . irritating soul-searching garbage . 
it's a bad thing when a movie has about as much substance as its end credits blooper reel . 
with its dogged hollywood naturalism and the inexorable passage of its characters toward sainthood , windtalkers is nothing but a sticky-sweet 

soap . 
some of it is clever , but it is never melodic/
a relative letdown . 
better to just call it abc kiarostami . for aids and africa are nothing more than part of the scenery . 
no aspirations to social import inform the movie version . this is a shameless sham , calculated to cash in on the popularity of its stars . 
manages to be somewhat well-acted , not badly art-directed and utterly unengaging no matter how hard it tries to be thrilling , touching or , 

yikes , uproarious . 
warmed-over hash . 
this rather superficial arthouse middle-brow film knows how to please a crowd , and that's about all it does well . 
it's clear the filmmakers weren't sure where they wanted their story to go , and even more clear that they lack the skills to get us to this 

undetermined destination . 
as vulgar as it is banal . 
a puzzling experience . 
you wonder why enough wasn't just a music video rather than a full-length movie . 
the film's tone and pacing are off almost from the get-go . 
the talented and clever robert rodriguez perhaps put a little too much heart into his first film and didn't reserve enough for his second . 
more whiny downer than corruscating commentary . 
tambor and clayburgh make an appealing couple ó he's understated and sardonic , she's appealingly manic and energetic . both deserve better . 
suffocated by its fussy script and uptight characters , this musty adaptation is all the more annoying since it's been packaged and sold back 

to us by hollywood . 
coughs and sputters on its own postmodern conceit . 
a wildly inconsistent emotional experience . 
sit through this one , and you won't need a magic watch to stop time ; your dvd player will do it for you . 
a sometimes tedious film . 
teen movies have really hit the skids . 
there are plot holes big enough for shamu the killer whale to swim through . 
 . . . plays like somebody spliced random moments of a chris rock routine into what is otherwise a cliche-riddled but self-serious spy thriller 

. 
nasty , ugly , pointless and depressing , even if you hate clowns . 
what is 100% missing here is a script of even the most elemental literacy , an inkling of genuine wit , and anything resembling acting . 
does paint some memorable images . . . , but makhmalbaf keeps her distance from the characters
it uses the pain and violence of war as background material for color . 
just not campy enough
the movie , directed by mick jackson , leaves no cliche unturned , from the predictable plot to the characters straight out of central casting 

. 
it's everything you don't go to the movies for . 
like watching a dress rehearsal the week before the show goes up : everything's in place but something's just a little off-kilter . 
the affectionate loopiness that once seemed congenital to demme's perspective has a tough time emerging from between the badly dated cutesy-pie 

mystery scenario and the newfangled hollywood post-production effects . 
for all its technical virtuosity , the film is so mired in juvenile and near-xenophobic pedagogy that it's enough to make one pine for the day 

when godard can no longer handle the rigors of filmmaking . 
american chai encourages rueful laughter at stereotypes only an indian-american would recognize . and the lesson , in the end , is nothing new 

. 
it made me want to wrench my eyes out of my head and toss them at the screen . 
due to some script weaknesses and the casting of the director's brother , the film trails off into inconsequentiality . 
 . . . plot holes so large and obvious a marching band might as well be stomping through them in clown clothes , playing a college football 

fight song on untuned instruments . 
so devoid of any kind of intelligible story that it makes films like xxx and collateral damage seem like thoughtful treatises
combining quick-cut editing and a blaring heavy metal much of the time , beck seems to be under the illusion that he's shooting the latest 

system of a down video . 
dragonfly has no atmosphere , no tension -- nothing but costner , flailing away . it's a buggy drag . 
works hard to establish rounded characters , but then has nothing fresh or particularly interesting to say about them . 
the action switches between past and present , but the material link is too tenuous to anchor the emotional connections that purport to span a 

125-year divide . 
nonsensical , dull " cyber-horror " flick is a grim , hollow exercise in flat scares and bad acting . 
instead of hiding pinocchio from critics , miramax should have hidden it from everyone . 
manages to be both repulsively sadistic and mundane . 
a great ensemble cast can't lift this heartfelt enterprise out of the familiar . 
there ought to be a directing license , so that ed burns can have his revoked . 
the structure the film takes may find matt damon and ben affleck once again looking for residuals as this officially completes a good will 

hunting trilogy that was never planned . 
whereas last year's exemplary sexy beast seemed to revitalize the british gangster movie , this equally brutal outing merely sustains it . 
 . . . a boring parade of talking heads and technical gibberish that will do little to advance the linux cause . 
green might want to hang onto that ski mask , as robbery may be the only way to pay for his next project . 
i can take infantile humor . . . but this is the sort of infantile that makes you wonder about changing the director and writer's diapers . 
there isn't nearly enough fun here , despite the presence of some appealing ingredients . 
the tale of tok ( andy lau ) , a sleek sociopath on the trail of o ( takashi sorimachi ) , the most legendary of asian hitmen , is too 

scattershot to take hold . 
directed in a paint-by-numbers manner . 
a cheerful enough but imminently forgettable rip-off of [besson's] earlier work . 
a lackluster , unessential sequel to the classic disney adaptation of j . m . barrie's peter pan . 
samira makhmalbaf's new film blackboards is much like the ethos of a stream of consciousness , although , it's unfortunate for the viewer that 

the thoughts and reflections coming through are torpid and banal
 . . . routine , harmless diversion and little else . 
late marriage's stiffness is unlikely to demonstrate the emotional clout to sweep u . s . viewers off their feet . 
this time mr . burns is trying something in the martin scorsese street-realist mode , but his self-regarding sentimentality trips him up again 

. 
while there's something intrinsically funny about sir anthony hopkins saying 'get in the car , bitch , ' this jerry bruckheimer production has 

little else to offer
it's hampered by a lifetime-channel kind of plot and a lead actress who is out of her depth . 
let's hope -- shall we ? -- that the 'true story' by which all the queen's men is allegedly " inspired " was a lot funnier and more deftly 

enacted than what's been cobbled together onscreen . 
is there a group of more self-absorbed women than the mother and daughters featured in this film ? i don't think so . nothing wrong with 

performances here , but the whiney characters bugged me . 
there is very little dread or apprehension , and though i like the creepy ideas , they are not executed with anything more than perfunctory 

skill . 
if you've ever entertained the notion of doing what the title of this film implies , what sex with strangers actually shows may put you off the 

idea forever . 
in the end , the movie collapses on its shaky foundation despite the best efforts of director joe carnahan . 
adults will wish the movie were less simplistic , obvious , clumsily plotted and shallowly characterized . but what are adults doing in the 

theater at all ? 
sticky sweet sentimentality , clumsy plotting and a rosily myopic view of life in the wwii-era mississippi delta undermine this adaptation . 
it's another stale , kill-by-numbers flick , complete with blade-thin characters and terrible , pun-laden dialogue . 
every time you look , sweet home alabama is taking another bummer of a wrong turn . 
partway through watching this saccharine , easter-egg-colored concoction , you realize that it is made up of three episodes of a rejected tv 

show . 
the overall effect is less like a children's movie than a recruitment film for future hollywood sellouts . 
portentous and pretentious , the weight of water is appropriately titled , given the heavy-handedness of it drama . 
a fitfully amusing romp that , if nothing else , will appeal to fans of malcolm in the middle and its pubescent star , frankie muniz . 
jason x is positively anti-darwinian : nine sequels and 400 years later , the teens are none the wiser and jason still kills on auto-pilot . 
to say this was done better in wilder's some like it hot is like saying the sun rises in the east . 
at the very least , if you don't know anything about derrida when you walk into the theater , you won't know much more when you leave . 
the actors are appealing , but elysian fields is idiotic and absurdly sentimental . 
as 'chick flicks' go , this one is pretty miserable , resorting to string-pulling rather than legitimate character development and intelligent 

plotting . 
the only excitement comes when the credits finally roll and you get to leave the theater . 
there's no emotional pulse to solaris . with an emotional sterility to match its outer space setting , soderbergh's spectacular swing for the 

fence yields only a spectacular whiff . 
it can't decide if it wants to be a mystery/thriller , a romance or a comedy . 
denis o'neill's script avoids the prime sports cliche , a last-second goal to win the championship , but it neglects few others . 
the character of zigzag is not sufficiently developed to support a film constructed around him . 
one of those pictures whose promising , if rather precious , premise is undercut by amateurish execution . 
serving sara doesn't serve up a whole lot of laughs . 
the most hopelessly monotonous film of the year , noteworthy only for the gimmick of being filmed as a single unbroken 87-minute take . 
with virtually no interesting elements for an audience to focus on , chelsea walls is a triple-espresso endurance challenge . 
stale , futile scenario . 
deadeningly dull , mired in convoluted melodrama , nonsensical jargon and stiff-upper-lip laboriousness . 
a misogynistic piece of filth that attempts to pass itself off as hip , young adult entertainment . 
like the chelsea's denizens . . . burdette's collage-form scenario tends to over-romanticize the spiritual desolation of the struggling artiste 

. 
it's basically an overlong episode of tales from the crypt . 
the film makes a fatal mistake : it asks us to care about a young man whose only apparent virtue is that he is not quite as unpleasant as some 

of the people in his life . 
another in-your-face wallow in the lower depths made by people who have never sung those blues . 
shaky close-ups of turkey-on-rolls , stubbly chins , liver spots , red noses and the filmmakers new bobbed do draw easy chuckles but lead 

nowhere . 
i can't quite recommend it -- it's too patched together -- but i almost can ; it's the kind of movie that makes you want to like it . 
complete lack of originality , cleverness or even visible effort
though perry and hurley make inspiring efforts to breathe life into the disjointed , haphazard script by jay scherick and david ronn , neither 

the actors nor director reginald hudlin can make it more than fitfully entertaining . 
something akin to a japanese alice through the looking glass , except that it seems to take itself far more seriously . 
it takes talent to make a lifeless movie about the most heinous man who ever lived . 
on the whole , the movie lacks wit , feeling and believability to compensate for its incessant coarseness and banality . 
the story and the friendship proceeds in such a way that you're watching a soap opera rather than a chronicle of the ups and downs that 

accompany lifelong friendships . 
offers very little genuine romance and even fewer laughs . . . a sad sitcom of a movie , largely devoid of charm . 
makes for a pretty unpleasant viewing experience . 
the movie fails to live up to the sum of its parts . 
although huppert's intensity and focus has a raw exhilaration about it , the piano teacher is anything but fun . 
it showcases carvey's talent for voices , but not nearly enough and not without taxing every drop of one's patience to get to the good stuff . 
bad . very bad . stultifyingly , dumbfoundingly , mind-numbingly bad . 
may reawaken discussion of the kennedy assassination but this fictional film looks made for cable rather than for the big screen . 
if looking for a thrilling sci-fi cinematic ride , don't settle for this imposter . 
not really bad so much as distasteful : we need kidnapping suspense dramas right now like we need doomsday thrillers . 
the result is a gaudy bag of stale candy , something from a halloween that died . 
davis . . . is so enamored of her own creation that she can't see how insufferable the character is . 
the man from elysian fields is a cold , bliss-less work that groans along thinking itself some important comment on how life throws us some 

beguiling curves . 
the messages of compassion and mercy are clearly , squarely and specifically expounded via computer animated old testament tale of jonah and 

the whale . determined to be fun , and bouncy , with energetic musicals , the humor didn't quite engage this adult . 
historical dramas fused with love triangle is a well worn conceit . but this films lacks the passion required to sell the material . 
long time dead ? not nearly long enough . 
nothing more substantial than a fitfully clever doodle . 
a solid film . . . but more conscientious than it is truly stirring . 
there's not enough here to justify the almost two hours . 
the x potion gives the quickly named blossom , bubbles and buttercup supernatural powers that include extraordinary strength and laser-beam 

eyes , which unfortunately don't enable them to discern flimsy screenplays . 
perceptive in its vision of nascent industrialized world politics as a new art form , but far too clunky , didactic and saddled with scenes 

that seem simply an ill fit for this movie . 
verbinski implements every hack-artist trick to give us the ooky-spookies . 
mcconaughey's fun to watch , the dragons are okay , not much fire in the script . 
an unwise amalgam of broadcast news and vibes . 
skins has a right to yawp , and we have a right to our grains of salt . 
who needs love like this ? 
hit and miss as far as the comedy goes and a big ole' miss in the way of story . 
returning aggressively to his formula of dimwitted comedy and even dimmer characters , sandler , who also executive produces , has made a film 

that makes previous vehicles look smart and sassy . 
exists then as an occasionally insightful acting exercise . 
trite , banal , cliched , mostly inoffensive . 
mattei is tiresomely grave and long-winded , as if circularity itself indicated profundity . 
it's not original , and , robbed of the element of surprise , it doesn't have any huge laughs in its story of irresponsible cops who love to 

play pranks . 
whenever its story isn't bogged down by idiocy involving the cia and a lost u . s . satellite , hunter -- starring irwin and his american 

wife/colleague , terri -- is a movie children should enjoy . 
it offers little beyond the momentary joys of pretty and weightless intellectual entertainment . 
a sequence of ridiculous shoot-'em-up scenes . 
nothing in waking up in reno ever inspired me to think of its inhabitants as anything more than markers in a screenplay . 
i'm just too bored to care . 
irwin is a man with enough charisma and audacity to carry a dozen films , but this particular result is ultimately held back from being 

something greater . 
not a stereotype is omitted nor a clichÈ left unsaid . 
as befits its title , this pg-13-rated piffle is ultimately as threatening as the snuggle fabric softener bear . 
attempts by this ensemble film to impart a message are so heavy-handed that they instead pummel the audience . 
it all feels like a monty python sketch gone horribly wrong . 
nervous breakdowns are not entertaining . 
scorsese doesn't give us a character worth giving a damn about . 
a beautifully made piece of unwatchable drivel . 
like being trapped at a perpetual frat party . . . how can something so gross be so boring ? 
this is so bad . 
even film silliness needs a little gravity , beyond good hair and humping . 
i felt sad for lise not so much because of what happens as because she was captured by this movie when she obviously belongs in something 

lighter and sunnier , by rohmer , for example . 
prurient playthings aside , there's little to love about this english trifle . 
this is a train wreck of an action film -- a stupefying attempt by the filmmakers to force-feed james bond into the mindless xxx mold and throw 

40 years of cinematic history down the toilet in favor of bright flashes and loud bangs . 
the film flat lines when it should peak and is more missed opportunity and trifle than dark , decadent truffle . 
it's played in the most straight-faced fashion , with little humor to lighten things up . the heavy-handed film is almost laughable as a 

consequence . 
van wilder brings a whole new meaning to the phrase 'comedy gag . ' at least one scene is so disgusting that viewers may be hard pressed to 

retain their lunch . 
a disappointment for those who love alternate versions of the bard , particularly ones that involve deep fryers and hamburgers . 
the film tries too hard to be funny and tries too hard to be hip . the end result is a film that's neither . 
every nanosecond of the the new guy reminds you that you could be doing something else far more pleasurable . something like scrubbing the 

toilet . or emptying rat traps . or doing last year's taxes with your ex-wife . 
scooby dooby doo / and shaggy too / you both look and sound great . / but daphne , you're too buff / fred thinks he's tough / and velma - wow , 

you've lost weight ! 
is the time really ripe for a warmed-over james bond adventure , with a village idiot as the 007 clone ? 
there's enough melodrama in this magnolia primavera to make pta proud yet director muccino's characters are less worthy of puccini than they 

are of daytime television . 
however it may please those who love movies that blare with pop songs , young science fiction fans will stomp away in disgust . 
the humor isn't as sharp , the effects not as innovative , nor the story as imaginative as in the original . but it could have been worse . 
some of their jokes work , but most fail miserably and in the end , pumpkin is far more offensive than it is funny . 
even horror fans will most likely not find what they're seeking with trouble every day ; the movie lacks both thrills and humor . 
comes off like a rejected abc afterschool special , freshened up by the dunce of a screenwriting 101 class . . . . designed to provide a mix of 

smiles and tears , " crossroads " instead provokes a handful of unintentional howlers and numerous yawns . 
it seems to me the film is about the art of ripping people off without ever letting them consciously know you have done so
it's just disappointingly superficial -- a movie that has all the elements necessary to be a fascinating , involving character study , but 

never does more than scratch the surface . 
the title not only describes its main characters , but the lazy people behind the camera as well . 
sometimes it feels as if it might have been made in the '70s or '80s , and starred chevy chase and goldie hawn . 
schaeffer has to find some hook on which to hang his persistently useless movies , and it might as well be the resuscitation of the middle-aged 

character . 
demands too much of most viewers . 
the story drifts so inexorably into cliches about tortured ( and torturing ) artists and consuming but impossible love that you can't help but 

become more disappointed as each overwrought new sequence plods on . 
it should be mentioned that the set design and interiors of the haunted vessel are more than effectively creepy and moodily lit . so i just did 

. 
shamelessly sappy and , worse , runs away from its own provocative theme . 
aggravating and tedious . 
the ring just left me cold and wet like i was out in the seattle drizzle without rainwear . 
the film seems a dead weight . the lack of pace kills it , although , in a movie about cancer , this might be apt . 
for anyone who grew up on disney's 1950 treasure island , or remembers the 1934 victor fleming classic , this one feels like an impostor . 
a clutchy , indulgent and pretentious travelogue and diatribe against . . . well , just stuff . watching scarlet diva , one is poised for 

titillation , raw insight or both . instead , we just get messy anger , a movie as personal therapy . 
meandering , sub-aquatic mess : it's so bad it's good , but only if you slide in on a freebie . 
the ending is a cop-out . what happens to john q ? i don't have an i am sam clue . 
has the feel of an unedited personal journal . 
remember when bond had more glamour than clamor ? no more . 
cry havoc and let slip the dogs of cheese , indeed . 
this charmless nonsense ensues amid clanging film references that make jay and silent bob's excellent adventure seem understated . 
it doesn't quite deserve the gong , but there are more fascinating acts than " confessions of a dangerous mind . " 
the subject of swinging still seems ripe for a documentary -- just not this one . 
 . . . hudlin is stuck trying to light a fire with soggy leaves . 
unlike his directorial efforts , la femme nikita and the professional , the transporter lacks besson's perspective as a storyteller . 
the overall effect is so completely inane that one would have to be mighty bored to even think of staying with this for more than , say , ten . 

. . make that three minutes . 
lacks depth . 
most of the supporting characters in eastwood films are weak , as are most of the subplots . this one's weaker than most . 
there's no real reason to see it , and no real reason not to . 
audiences will find no mention of political prisoners or persecutions that might paint the castro regime in less than saintly tones . 
under-rehearsed and lifeless
the film takes too long getting to the good stuff , then takes too long figuring out what to do next . 
you can practically smell the patchouli oil . 
to say analyze that is de niro's best film since meet the parents sums up the sad state of his recent career . 
the actors don't inhabit their roles -- they're trapped by them , forced to change behavior in bizarre unjustified fashion and spout dialog 

that consists mostly of platitudes . 
an often-deadly boring , strange reading of a classic whose witty dialogue is treated with a baffling casual approach
this film was made to get laughs from the slowest person in the audience -- just pure slapstick with lots of inane , inoffensive screaming and 

exaggerated facial expressions . 
consists of a plot and jokes done too often by people far more talented than ali g
another week , another gross-out college comedy--ugh . 
laughably , irredeemably awful . 
moderately involving despite bargain-basement photography and hackneyed romance . 
there is no insight into the anguish of heidi's life -- only a depiction of pain , today's version of greek tragedy , the talk-show guest 

decrying her fate . 
the editing is chaotic , the photography grainy and badly focused , the writing unintentionally hilarious , the direction unfocused , the 

performances as wooden . 
when [de palma's] bad , he's really bad , and femme fatale ranks with the worst he has done . 
tadpole is emblematic of the witless ageism afflicting films : young is cool , and too young is too cool . 
i doubt anyone will remember the picture by the time christmas really rolls around , but maybe it'll be on video by then . 
uncertain in tone . . . a garbled exercise in sexual politics , a junior varsity short cuts by way of very bad things . 
all's well that ends well , and rest assured , the consciousness-raising lessons are cloaked in gross-out gags . 
the only thing worse than your substandard , run-of-the-mill hollywood picture is an angst-ridden attempt to be profound . 
if you think that jennifer lopez has shown poor judgment in planning to marry ben affleck , wait till you see maid in manhattan . 
stars matthew perry and elizabeth hurley illicit more than a chuckle , and more jokes land than crash , but ultimately serving sara doesn't 

distinguish itself from the herd . 
it's best to avoid imprisonment with the dull , nerdy folks that inhabit cherish . 
culkin exudes none of the charm or charisma that might keep a more general audience even vaguely interested in his bratty character . 
in the end , ted bundy's only justification is the director's common but unexplored fascination with the frustrated maniac ; there's no larger 

point , and little social context . 
 . . . ( like ) channel surfing between the discovery channel and a late-night made-for-cable action movie . 
a movie that , rather than skip along the seine , more or less slogs its way through soggy paris , tongue uncomfortably in cheek . 
shot perhaps 'artistically' with handheld cameras and apparently no movie lights by joaquin baca-asay , the low-budget production swings 

annoyingly between vertigo and opacity . 
imagine a really bad community theater production of west side story without the songs . 
soul is what's lacking in every character in this movie and , subsequently , the movie itself . 
a one-trick pony whose few t&a bits still can't save itself from being unoriginal , unfunny and unrecommendable . 
the worst kind of independent ; the one where actors play dress down hicks and ponderously mope around trying to strike lightning as captured 

by their 1970s predecessors
it may be a prize winner , but teacher is a bomb . 
the production values are up there . the use of cgi and digital ink-and-paint make the thing look really slick . the voices are fine as well . 

the problem , it is with most of these things , is the script . 
it's got its heart in the right place , but it also wilts after awhile . 
proves that a movie about goodness is not the same thing as a good movie . 
well , it does go on forever . 
this overproduced and generally disappointing effort isn't likely to rouse the rush hour crowd . 
topkapi this is not . 
if shayamalan wanted to tell a story about a man who loses his faith , why didn't he just do it , instead of using bad sci-fi as window 

dressing ? 
ethan hawke has always fancied himself the bastard child of the beatnik generation and it's all over his chelsea walls . 
equal parts bodice-ripper and plodding costume drama . 
i'm not suggesting that you actually see it , unless you're the kind of person who has seen every wim wenders film of the '70s . 
while the film misfires at every level , the biggest downside is the paucity of laughter in what's supposed to be a comedy . 
if you liked the 1982 film then , you'll still like it now . 
a 93-minute condensation of a 26-episode tv series , with all of the pitfalls of such you'd expect . 
guillen rarely gets beneath the surface of things . she lists ingredients , but never mixes and stirs . 
audiences can be expected to suspend their disbelief only so far -- and that does not include the 5 o'clock shadow on the tall wooden kid as he 

skips off to school . 
to imagine the life of harry potter as a martial arts adventure told by a lobotomized woody allen is to have some idea of the fate that lies in 

store for moviegoers lured to the mediocrity that is kung pow : enter the fist . 
it delivers some chills and sustained unease , but flounders in its quest for deeper meaning . 
credibility levels are low and character development a non-starter . 
i would have preferred a transfer down the hall to mr . holland's class for the music , or to robin williams's lecture so i could listen to a 

teacher with humor , passion , and verve . 
for the most part , the ingredients are there . but an unwillingness to explore beyond the surfaces of her characters prevents nettelbeck's 

film from coming together . 
an earnest , heartrending look at the divide between religious fundamentalists and their gay relatives . it's also heavy-handed and devotes too 

much time to bigoted views . 
a mawkish , implausible platonic romance that makes chaplin's city lights seem dispassionate by comparison . 
yes , one enjoys seeing joan grow from awkward young woman to strong , determined monarch , but her love for the philandering philip only 

diminishes her stature . 
it's a film that hinges on its casting , and glover really doesn't fit the part . 
this is a throwaway , junk-food movie whose rap soundtrack was better tended to than the film itself . 
 . . . with the candy-like taste of it fading faster than 25-cent bubble gum , i realized this is a throwaway movie that won't stand the test 

of time . it's a trifle . 
literally nothing in the pool is new , but if you grew up on the stalker flicks of the 1980's this one should appease you for 90 minutes . 
arguably the year's silliest and most incoherent movie . 
anyway , for one reason or another , crush turns into a dire drama partway through . after that , it just gets stupid and maudlin . too bad , 

but thanks to some lovely comedic moments and several fine performances , it's not a total loss . 
chao was chen kaige's assistant for years in china . he has not learnt that storytelling is what the movies are about . 
a mixed bag of a comedy that can't really be described as out of this world . 
unwieldy contraption . 
the film is a travesty of the genre and even as spoof takes itself too seriously . 
marries the amateurishness of the blair witch project with the illogic of series 7 : the contenders to create a completely crass and 

forgettable movie . 
the piano teacher is the sort of movie that discourages american audiences from ever wanting to see another foreign film . 
if it's another regurgitated action movie you're after , there's no better film than half past dead . 
so what is the point ? lovingly choreographed bloodshed taking place in a pristine movie neverland , basically . 
this is junk food cinema at its greasiest . 
when it's all wet , blue crush is highly enjoyable . when it's on dry land , though , this surfer-girl melodrama starts gasping like a beached 

grouper . 
most new movies have a bright sheen . some , like ballistic , arrive stillborn . . . looking like the beaten , well-worn video box cover of 

seven years into the future . 
the story is naturally poignant , but first-time screenwriter paul pender overloads it with sugary bits of business . 
you see robert de niro singing - and dancing to - west side story show tunes . choose your reaction : a . ) that sure is funny ! b . ) that 

sure is pathetic ! 
a sermonizing and lifeless paean to teenage dullards . 
this dramatically shaky contest of wills only reiterates the old hollywood saw : evil is interesting and good is boring . 
before long , the film starts playing like general hospital crossed with a saturday night live spoof of dog day afternoon . 
the charms of willful eccentricity , at least as evidenced by this latest cinematic essay , are beginning to wear a bit thin . 
instead of accurately accounting a terrible true story , the film's more determined to become the next texas chainsaw massacre . but what about 

the countless other people who'd merely like to watch a solid tale about a universally interesting soul ? 
a silly , self-indulgent film about a silly , self-indulgent filmmaker . 
scarlet diva has a voyeuristic tug , but all in all it's a lot less sensational than it wants to be . 
the character is too forced and overwritten to be funny or believable much of the time , and clayburgh doesn't always improve the over-the-top 

mix . 
flashy , pretentious and as impenetrable as morvern's thick , working-class scottish accent . 
a battle between bug-eye theatre and dead-eye matinee . 
the movie is virtually without context -- journalistic or historical . what's worse is that pelosi knows it . 
 . . . instead go rent " shakes the clown " , a much funnier film with a similar theme and an equally great robin williams performance . 
lame , haphazard teen comedy . 
it's the kind of movie that ends up festooning u . s . art house screens for no reason other than the fact that it's in french ( well , mostly 

) with english subtitles and is magically 'significant' because of that . 
this miserable excuse of a movie runs on empty , believing flatbush machismo will get it through . 
expect to be reminded of other , better films , especially seven , which director william malone slavishly copies . 
nair stuffs the film with dancing , henna , ornamentation , and group song , but her narrative clichÈs and telegraphed episodes smell of old 

soap opera . 
it's getting harder and harder to ignore the fact that hollywood isn't laughing with us , folks . it's laughing at us . 
might have been better off as a documentary , with less of mr . eyre's uninspired dramatics and more of his sense of observation and outrage . 
every good actor needs to do his or her own hamlet . for benigni it wasn't shakespeare whom he wanted to define his career with but pinocchio . 

it might as well have been problem child iv . 
arnold's jump from little screen to big will leave frowns on more than a few faces . 
both awful and appealing . 
the lack of opposing viewpoints soon grows tiresome -- the film feels more like a series of toasts at a testimonial dinner than a documentary . 
nothing plot-wise is worth e-mailing home about . 
we are left with a superficial snapshot that , however engaging , is insufficiently enlightening and inviting . 
helmer devito . . . attempts to do too many things in this story about ethics , payola , vice , murder , kids' tv and revenge . 
it wouldn't be my preferred way of spending 100 minutes or $7 . 00 . 
i hated every minute of it . 
[t]hose same extremes prevent us from taking its message seriously , and the stepford wives mentality doesn't work in a modern context . 
obvious politics and rudimentary animation reduce the chances that the appeal of hey arnold ! the movie will reach far beyond its core 

demographic . 
there's no mistaking the fact that this hybrid misses the impact of the disney classic , and even that of the excellent 1934 mgm version . 
a simple , sometimes maddeningly slow film that has just enough charm and good acting to make it interesting , but is ultimately pulled under 

by the pacing and lack of creativity within . 
roger michell , who did an appealing job directing persuasion and notting hill in england , gets too artsy in his american debut . 
there is an almost poignant dimension to the way that every major stunt seagal's character . . . performs is shot from behind , as if it could 

fool us into thinking that we're not watching a double . 
anthony hopkins ? big deal ! we've already seen the prequel to the silence of the lambs and hannibal -- and it was better the first time . 
ostensibly celebrates middle-aged girl power , even as it presents friendship between women as pathetic , dysfunctional and destructive . 
if this is an example of the type of project that robert redford's lab is willing to lend its imprimatur to , then perhaps it's time to rethink 

independent films . 
pumpkin sits in a patch somewhere between mirthless todd solondzian satire and callow student film . 
not so much funny as aggressively sitcom-cute , it's full of throwaway one-liners , not-quite jokes , and a determined tv amiability that allen 

personifies . 
it's not that waiting for happiness is a bad film , because it isn't . it's just incredibly dull . 
the sad thing about knockaround guys is its lame aspiration for grasping the coolness vibes when in fact the film isn't as flippant or slick as 

it thinks it is . 
a cumbersome and cliche-ridden movie greased with every emotional device known to man . 
director ferzan ozpetek creates an interesting dynamic with the members of this group , who live in the same apartment building . but he loses 

his focus when he concentrates on any single person . 
egoyan's movie is too complicated to sustain involvement , and , if you'll excuse a little critical heresy , too intellectually ambitious . 
it wants to be thought of as a subversive little indie film , but it has all the qualities of a modern situation comedy . 
despite apparent motives to the contrary , it ends up being , like [seinfeld's] revered tv show , about pretty much nothing . 
shadyac shoots his film like an m . night shyamalan movie , and he frequently maintains the same snail's pace ; he just forgot to add any 

genuine tension . 
plays less like a coming-of-age romance than an infomercial . 
there are a few laughs and clever sight gags scattered about , but not enough to make this anything more than another big-budget bust . 
the story's so preposterous that i didn't believe it for a second , despite the best efforts of everyone involved . 
i've heard that the fans of the first men in black have come away hating the second one . i wonder why . they felt like the same movie to me . 
despite her relentless vim and winsome facial symmetry , witherspoon is just too dialed-up to be america's sweetheart . 
an ultra-low-budget indie debut that smacks more of good intentions than talent . 
birot is a competent enough filmmaker , but her story has nothing fresh or very exciting about it . 
de niro and mcdormand give solid performances , but their screen time is sabotaged by the story's inability to create interest . 
even those of a single digit age will be able to recognize that this story is too goofy . . . even for disney . 
that is essentially what's missing from blackboards -- the sense of something bigger , some ultimate point . 
a compendium of solondz's own worst instincts in under 90 minutes . 
if the title is a jeopardy question , then the answer might be " how does steven seagal come across these days ? " or maybe " how will you feel 

after an 88-minute rip-off of the rock with action confined to slo-mo gun firing and random glass-shattering ? 
it is a comedy that's not very funny and an action movie that is not very thrilling ( and an uneasy alliance , at that ) . 
the story is familiar from its many predecessors ; like them , it eventually culminates in the not-exactly -stunning insight that crime doesn't 

pay . 
you'll have more fun setting fire to yourself in the parking lot . you'll be more entertained getting hit by a bus . 
dissing a bond movie is quite like calling a dog stupid , but when it has the temerity to run over two hours , you feel like winding up with a 

kick . 
ritchie's treatment of the class reversal is majorly ham-fisted , from the repetitive manifestos that keep getting thrown in people's faces to 

the fact amber is such a joke . 
flat , but with a revelatory performance by michelle williams . 
little more than a frothy vanity project . 
the film goes from being an unusual sci-fi character study to a chase flick that detracts from its ending . 
verbinski substitutes atmosphere for action , tedium for thrills . 
for all its surface frenzy , high crimes should be charged with loitering -- so much on view , so little to offer . 
the sum of all fears is almost impossible to follow -- and there's something cringe-inducing about seeing an american football stadium nuked as 

pop entertainment . 
alex nohe's documentary plays like a travelogue for what mostly resembles a real-life , big-budget nc-17 version of tank girl . 
the title trapped turns out to be a pretty fair description of how you feel while you're watching this ultra-manipulative thriller . 
the appeal of the vulgar , sexist , racist humour went over my head or -- considering just how low brow it is -- perhaps it snuck under my feet 

. 
the story really has no place to go since simone is not realóshe can't provide any conflict . 
ihops don't pile on this much syrup . 
for the most part , i spy was an amusing lark that will probably rank as one of murphy's better performances in one of his lesser-praised 

movies . 
focuses on joan's raging hormones and sledgehammers the audience with spanish inquisitions about her " madness " so much that i became mad that 

i wasted 123 minutes and $9 . 50 on this 21st century torture device . 
this series should have died long ago , but they keep bringing it back another day as punishment for paying money to see the last james bond 

movie . 
a bit of an unwieldy mess . 
with a story as bizarre and mysterious as this , you don't want to be worrying about whether the ineffectual broomfield is going to have the 

courage to knock on that door . 
the filmmakers juggle and juxtapose three story lines but fail to come up with one cogent point , unless it's that life stinks , especially for 

sensitive married women who really love other women . 
the movie feels like it's going to be great , and it carries on feeling that way for a long time , but takeoff just never happens . 
a gimmick in search of a movie : how to get carvey into as many silly costumes and deliver as many silly voices as possible , plot mechanics be 

damned . 
 . . . the last time i saw a theater full of people constantly checking their watches was during my sats . 
 . . . fifty minutes of tedious adolescent melodramatics followed by thirty-five minutes of inflated nonsense . 
 . . . lacks the punch and verve needed to make this genre soar . 
it's often faintly amusing , but the problems of the characters never become important to us , and the story never takes hold . 
it's tough , astringent , darkly funny and . . . well , it's also generic , untidy , condescending and mild of impact rather than stunning . 
largely a for-fans artifact . 
there's no denying the elaborateness of the artist's conceptions , nor his ability to depict them with outrageous elan , but really the whole 

series is so much pretentious nonsense , lavishly praised by those who equate obscurity with profundity . 
characters wander into predictably treacherous situations even though they should know better . 
there's plenty of style in guillermo del toro's sequel to the 1998 hit but why do we need 117 minutes to tell a tale that simply can't sustain 

more than 90 minutes . 
[i]f you've been to more than one indie flick in your life , chances are you've already seen this kind of thing . 
first-time director jo?o pedro rodrigues' unwillingness to define his hero's background or motivations becomes more and more frustrating as the 

film goes on . 
no reason for anyone to invest their hard-earned bucks into a movie which obviously didn't invest much into itself either . 
a strong first quarter , slightly less so second quarter , and average second half . 
a boring , wincingly cute and nauseatingly politically correct cartoon guaranteed to drive anyone much over age 4 screaming from the theater . 
the vampire thriller blade ii starts off as a wild hoot and then sucks the blood out of its fun ñ toward the end , you can feel your veins 

cringing from the workout . 
when the first few villians are introduced as " spider " and " snake " you know you're in for a real winner , creativity at its peak . 
an afterschool special without the courage of its convictions . 
the final result makes for adequate entertainment , i suppose , but anyone who has seen chicago on stage will leave the theater feeling they've 

watched nothing but a pale imitation of the real deal . 
[director] byler may yet have a great movie in him , but charlotte sometimes is only half of one . 
so few movies explore religion that it's disappointing to see one reduce it to an idea that fits in a sampler . 
it's also clear from the start that the transporter is running purely on adrenaline , and once the initial high wears off , the film's 

shortcomings start to shine through . 
watching it is rather like viewing a long soap opera in which only the first episode was any good . 
it's fun , but a psychological mess , with austin powers bumping his head on the way out of the closet . 
there are touching moments in etoiles , but for the most part this is a dull , dour documentary on what ought to be a joyful or at least 

fascinating subject . 
overwrought , melodramatic bodice-ripper . 
could the whole plan here have been to produce something that makes fatal attraction look like a classic by comparison ? that's the only sane 

rationale i can think of for swimfan's existence . 
i didn't laugh at the ongoing efforts of cube , and his skinny buddy mike epps , to make like laurel and hardy 'n the hood . 
the only way this supernatural snore-fest could give anyone a case of the frights is if they were put to sleep by the movie and had a nightmare 

. 
i wonder what the reaction of israelis will be to this supposedly evenhanded presentation . 
the film would work much better as a video installation in a museum , where viewers would be free to leave . immediately . 
human nature initially succeeds by allowing itself to go crazy , but ultimately fails by spinning out of control . 
[it's] a prison soccer movie starring charismatic tough guy vinnie jones , but it had too much spitting for me to enjoy . 
not even the hanson brothers can save it
the thriller side of this movie is falling flat , as the stalker doesn't do much stalking , and no cop or lawyer grasps the concept of actually 

investigating the case . 
 . . . [a] strained comedy that jettisons all opportunities for rock to make his mark by serving up the usual chaotic nonsense . 
a sour , nasty offering . 
feels like one of those contrived , only-in -hollywood productions where name actors deliver big performances created for the sole purpose of 

generating oscar talk . 
obstacles are too easily overcome and there isn't much in the way of character development in the script . 
it tells more than it shows . 
earnest falls short of its ideal predecessor largely due to parker's ill-advised meddling with the timeless source material . 
the film might have been more satisfying if it had , in fact , been fleshed out a little more instead of going for easy smiles . 
pretentious editing ruins a potentially terrific flick . 
not every animated film from disney will become a classic , but forgive me if i've come to expect more from this studio than some 79-minute 

after-school " cartoon " . 
do not , under any circumstances , consider taking a child younger than middle school age to this wallow in crude humor . 
nothing debases a concept comedy quite like the grinding of bad ideas , and showtime is crammed full of them . 
much-anticipated and ultimately lackluster movie . 
this is really just another genre picture . 
each story on its own could have been expanded and worked into a compelling single feature , but in its current incarnation , storytelling 

never quite gets over its rather lopsided conception . 
william shatner , as a pompous professor , is the sole bright spot . . . 
a trite psychological thriller designed to keep the audience guessing and guessing -- which is not to be confused with suspecting -- until it 

comes time to wrap things up and send the viewers home . 
neither funny nor suspenseful nor particularly well-drawn . 
'carente de imaginaciÛn , mal dirigida , peor actuada y sin un ·pice de romance , es una verdadera pÈrdida de tiempo y dinero'
acting , particularly by tambor , almost makes " never again " worthwhile , but [writer/director] schaeffer should follow his titular advice
both stars manage to be funny , but , like the recent i spy , the star chemistry begs the question of whether random gags add up to a movie . 
 " collateral damage " goes by the numbers and reps decent action entertainment ñ until the silly showdown ending that forces the viewer to 

totally suspend disbelief
'enigma' is a good name for a movie this delibrately obtuse and unapproachable . a waste of good performances . 
a dreary , incoherent , self-indulgent mess of a movie in which a bunch of pompous windbags drone on inanely for two hours . . . a cacophony of 

pretentious , meaningless prattle . 
i kept thinking over and over again , 'i should be enjoying this . ' but i wasn't . 
as conceived by mr . schaeffer , christopher and grace are little more than collections of quirky traits lifted from a screenwriter's outline 

and thrown at actors charged with the impossible task of making them jell . 
like so many other allegedly scary movies , it gets so tangled up in the twist that it chokes the energy right out of the very audience it 

seeks to frighten . 
the essential problem in orange county is that , having created an unusually vivid set of characters worthy of its strong cast , the film 

flounders when it comes to giving them something to do . 
just like hearst's enormous yacht , it's slow and unwieldy and takes a long time to reach its destination . 
there is not a character in the movie with a shred of plausibility , not an event that is believable , not a confrontation that is not staged , 

not a moment that is not false . 
where last time jokes flowed out of cho's life story , which provided an engrossing dramatic through line , here the comedian hides behind 

obviously constructed routines . 
why come up with something even quasi-original , when you can pillage from shirley jackson , richard matheson . . . and puke up something like 

rose red ? 
a broadly played , lowbrow comedy in which the cast delivers mildly amusing performances and no farm animals were injured by any of the gags . 
 . . . too gory to be a comedy and too silly to be an effective horror film . 
lacks heart , depth and , most of all , purpose . 
though a bit of a patchwork in script and production , a glossy , rich green , environment almost makes the picture work . 
perfectly enjoyable , instantly forgettable , nothing to write home about . 
wasabi is slight fare indeed , with the entire project having the feel of something tossed off quickly ( like one of hubert's punches ) , but 

it should go down smoothly enough with popcorn . 
somehow both wildly implausible and strangely conventional . 
this ill-fitting tuxedo is strictly off-the-rack . 
is " ballistic " worth the price of admission ? absolutely not . it sucked . would i see it again ? please see previous answer . 
the premise is in extremely bad taste , and the film's supposed insights are so poorly thought-out and substance-free that even a high school 

senior taking his or her first psychology class could dismiss them . 
sets up a nice concept for its fiftysomething leading ladies , but fails loudly in execution . 
kidman is really the only thing that's worth watching in birthday girl , a film by the stage-trained jez butterworth ( mojo ) that serves as 

yet another example of the sad decline of british comedies in the post-full monty world . 
imagine the james woods character from videodrome making a home movie of audrey rose and showing it to the kid from the sixth sense and you've 

imagined the ring . 
this time kaufman's imagination has failed him . 
an intermittently pleasing but mostly routine effort . 
it becomes gimmicky instead of compelling . " interview " loses its overall sense of mystery and becomes a tv episode rather than a documentary 

that you actually buy into . 
'unfaithful' cheats on itself and retreats to comfortable territory . too bad . 
frenetic but not really funny . 
taken individually or collectively , the stories never add up to as much as they promise . 
if you're not a prepubescent girl , you'll be laughing at britney spears' movie-starring debut whenever it doesn't have you impatiently 

squinting at your watch . 
a didactic and dull documentary glorifying software anarchy . 
an awful snooze . 
sluggishly directed by episodic tv veteran joe zwick , it's a sitcom without the snap-crackle . 
you could nap for an hour and not miss a thing . 
director clare kilner's debut is never as daft as it should have been . 
new best friend shouldn't have gone straight to video ; it should have gone straight to a mystery science theater 3000 video . 
wallace seems less like he's been burning to tell a war story than he's been itching to somehow tack one together
the thrill is ( long ) gone . 
just plain silly . 
began life as a computer game , then morphed into a movie -- a bad one , of course . 
part comedy , part drama , the movie winds up accomplishing neither in full , and leaves us feeling touched and amused by several moments and 

ideas , but nevertheless dissatisfied with the movie as a whole . 
godawful boring slug of a movie . 
dull , if not devoid of wit , this shaggy dog longs to frisk through the back alleys of history , but scarcely manages more than a modest , 

snoozy charm . 
scene-by-scene , things happen , but you'd be hard-pressed to say what or why . 
 . . . an unimaginative , nasty , glibly cynical piece of work . 
it is , by conventional standards , a fairly terrible movie . . . but it is also weirdly fascinating , a ready-made eurotrash cult object . it 

is also , at times , curiously moving . 
the tug-of-war at the core of beijing bicycle becomes weighed down with agonizing contrivances , overheated pathos and long , wistful gazes . 
vile and tacky are the two best adjectives to describe ghost ship . 
some decent actors inflict big damage upon their reputations . 
being author wells' great-grandson , you'd think filmmaker simon wells would have more reverence for the material . but this costly dud is a 

far cry from either the book or the beloved film . 
offensive in the way it exploits the hot-button issue of domestic abuse for cheap thrills and disgusting in the manner it repeatedly puts a 

small child in jeopardy , treating her as little more than a prop to be cruelly tormented . 
mark me down as a non-believer in werewolf films that are not serious and rely on stupidity as a substitute for humor . 
thoughtless , random , superficial humour and a lot of very bad scouse accents
aspires for the piquant but only really achieves a sort of ridiculous sourness . 
accuracy and realism are terrific , but if your film becomes boring , and your dialogue isn't smart , then you need to use more poetic license 

. 
for all its highfalutin title and corkscrew narrative , the movie turns out to be not much more than a shaggy human tale . 
a soggy , cliche-bound epic-horror yarn that ends up being even dumber than its title . 
one groan-inducing familiarity begets another . 
although based on a real-life person , john , in the movie , is a rather dull person to be stuck with for two hours . 
feeble comedy . 
great story , bad idea for a movie . 
with spy kids 2 : the island of lost dreams writer/director/producer robert rodriguez has cobbled together a film that feels like a sugar high 

gone awry . 
there is no entry portal in the rules of attraction , and i spent most of the movie feeling depressed by the shallow , selfish , greedy 

characters . 
it's hard to tell with all the crashing and banging where the salesmanship ends and the movie begins . 
 " my god , i'm behaving like an idiot ! " yes , you are , ben kingsley . 
a dreadful live-action movie . 
divertingly ridiculous , headbangingly noisy . 
an earnest racial-issues picture that might have gotten respectful critical praise in a different era -- say , the '60s . 
a hideous , confusing spectacle , one that may well put the nail in the coffin of any future rice adaptations . 
all i can say is fuhgeddaboutit . 
between bedroom scenes , viewers may find themselves wishing they could roll over and take a nap . 
if you collected all the moments of coherent dialogue , they still wouldn't add up to the time required to boil a four- minute egg . 
despite all the talking , by the time the bloody climax arrives we still don't feel enough of an attachment to these guys to care one way or 

another . 
every bit as bogus as most disney live action family movies are -- no real plot , no real conflict , no real point . 
a sensual performance from abbass buoys the flimsy story , but her inner journey is largely unexplored and we're left wondering about this 

exotic-looking woman whose emotional depths are only hinted at . 
never engaging , utterly predictable and completely void of anything remotely interesting or suspenseful . 
spousal abuse is a major problem in contemporary society , but the film reduces this domestic tragedy to florid melodrama . 
oedekerk wrote patch adams , for which he should not be forgiven . why he was given free reign over this project -- he wrote , directed , 

starred and produced -- is beyond me . 
the creaking , rusty ship makes a fine backdrop , but the ghosts' haunting is routine . 
whatever eyre's failings as a dramatist , he deserves credit for bringing audiences into this hard and bitter place . 
scotland , pa . blurs the line between black comedy and black hole . 
it tries too hard , and overreaches the logic of its own world . 
the whole damn thing is ripe for the jerry springer crowd . it's all pretty cynical and condescending , too . 
i cry for i spy -- or i would if this latest and laziest imaginable of all vintage-tv spinoffs were capable of engendering an emotional 

response of any kind . 
a boring , formulaic mix of serial killers and stalk'n'slash . 
what you would end up with if you took orwell , bradbury , kafka , george lucas and the wachowski brothers and threw them into a blender . but 

that's just the problem with it - the director hasn't added enough of his own ingredients . 
with recent tensions rekindled by the kathleen soliah trial and the upcoming trial of sla members emily and william harris , not to mention 

sept . 11 , its difficult these days to appreciate fire's bright side . 
flaunts its quirky excesses like a new year's eve drunk sporting a paper party hat . 
writhing under dialogue like 'you're from two different worlds' and 'tonight the maid is a lie and this , this is who you are , ' this 

schlock-filled fairy tale hits new depths of unoriginality and predictability . 
 . . . too slow , too boring , and occasionally annoying . 
is there enough material to merit a documentary on the making of wilco's last album ? 
faultlessly professional but finally slight . 
schmaltzy and unfunny , adam sandler's cartoon about hanukkah is numbingly bad , little nicky bad , 10 worst list bad . 
it's really yet another anemic and formulaic lethal weapon-derived buddy-cop movie , trying to pass off its lack of imagination as hip 

knowingness . 
scotland , pa . is a strangely drab romp . some studio pizazz might have helped . 
when perry fists a bull at the moore farm , it's only a matter of time before he gets the upper hand in matters of the heart . 
there's more scatological action in 8 crazy nights than a proctologist is apt to encounter in an entire career . 
too loud , too long and too frantic by half , die another day suggests that the bond franchise has run into a creative wall that 007 cannot fly 

over , tunnel under or barrel through . 
the cartoon is about as true to the spirit of the festival of lights as mr . deeds was to that of frank capra . 
 . . . the sum of the parts equals largely a confused mediocrity . 
the tone shifts abruptly from tense to celebratory to soppy . 
if we don't demand a standard of quality for the art that we choose , we deserve the trash that we get . 
a modest and messy metaphysical thriller offering more questions than answers . 
julia is played with exasperating blandness by laura regan . 
morrissette's script and direction show a fair amount of intelligence and wit -- but it doesn't signify a whole lot either . 
there's suspension of disbelief and then there's bad screenwriting . . . this film packs a wallop of the latter . 
all ms . jovovich , as the sanctified heroine , has to do is look radiant , grimly purposeful and mildly alarmed while forcing open doors , 

wielding wrenches and fleeing monsters . 
mocking kung fu pictures when they were a staple of exploitation theater programming was witty . mocking them now is an exercise in 

pointlessness . 
this is a particularly toxic little bonbon , palatable to only a chosen and very jaundiced few . 
this isn't just the cliffsnotes version of nicholas nickleby , it's the cliffsnotes with pages missing . 
considering the harsh locations and demanding stunts , this must have been a difficult shoot , but the movie proves rough going for the 

audience as well . 
better at putting you to sleep than a sound machine . 
so clichÈd that , at one point , they literally upset an apple cart . 
it's a decent glimpse into a time period , and an outcast , that is no longer accessible , but it doesn't necessarily shed more light on its 

subject than the popular predecessor . 
it might be the first sci-fi comedy that could benefit from a three's company-style laugh track . 
when the plot kicks in , the film loses credibility . 
credibility sinks into a mire of sentiment . 
the movie takes itself too seriously and , as a result , it makes for only intermittent fun . 
[davis] has a bright , chipper style that keeps things moving , while never quite managing to connect her wish-fulfilling characters to the 

human race . 
doesn't amount to much of anything . 
bullock's complete lack of focus and ability quickly derails the film
so stupid , so ill-conceived , so badly drawn , it created whole new levels of ugly . 
the truth is that the truth about charlie gets increasingly tiresome . 
enduring love but exhausting cinema . 
some of seagal's action pictures are guilty pleasures , but this one is so formulaic that it seems to be on auto-pilot . 
a ponderous meditation on love that feels significantly longer than its relatively scant 97 minutes . 
a long-winded and stagy session of romantic contrivances that never really gels like the shrewd feminist fairy tale it could have been . 
a little too pat for its own good . 
there are films that try the patience of even the most cinema-besotted critic -- and this was one of them . 
watching trouble every day , at least if you don't know what's coming , is like biting into what looks like a juicy , delicious plum on a hot 

summer day and coming away with your mouth full of rotten pulp and living worms . 
well-intentioned though it may be , its soap-opera morality tales have the antiseptic , preprogrammed feel of an after-school special . 
what would jesus do if he was a film director ? he'd create a movie better than this . 
when a set of pre-shooting guidelines a director came up with for his actors turns out to be cleverer , better written and of considerable more 

interest than the finished film , that's a bad sign . a very bad sign . 
it's a deeply serious movie that cares passionately about its subject , but too often becomes ponderous in its teaching of history , or lost in 

the intricate connections and multiple timelines of its story . 
can't kick about the assembled talent and the russos show genuine promise as comic filmmakers . still , this thing feels flimsy and ephemeral . 
diane lane shines in unfaithful . almost everything else is wan . 
i'm afraid you won't get through this frankly fantastical by-the-numbers b-flick with just a suspension of disbelief . rather , you'll have to 

wrestle disbelief to the ground and then apply the chloroform-soaked handkerchief . 
so relentlessly wholesome it made me want to swipe something . 
the title helpfully offers the most succinct review of it you'll read anywhere . 
the makers of divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood should offer a free ticket ( second prize , of course , two free tickets ) to anyone who 

can locate a genuinely honest moment in their movie . 
god help the poor woman if attal is this insecure in real life : his fictional yvan's neuroses are aggravating enough to exhaust the patience 

of even the most understanding spouse . 
let's cut to the consumer-advice bottom line : stay home . 
undercover brother doesn't go far enough . it's just a silly black genre spoof . 
the film's implicit premise is that the faith of the tonga people is in every way inferior to that of john . 
rates an 'e' for effort -- and a 'b' for boring . 
you've already seen heartbreak if you've watched the far superior nurse betty or sunset boulevard . even the unwatchable soapdish is more 

original . 
plays like one of those conversations that comic book guy on " the simpsons " has . 
a journey that's too random and inconclusive to be compelling , but which hoffman's brilliance almost makes worth taking . 
the movie bounces all over the map . 
but buying into sham truths and routine " indie " filmmaking , freundlich has made just another safe movie . it's not horrible , just horribly 

mediocre . 
not always too whimsical for its own good ( but enough to do harm ) , this strange hybrid of crime thriller , quirky character study , third-

rate romance and female empowerment fantasy never really finds the tonal or thematic glue it needs . 
 " juwanna mann ? " no thanks . wewannour money back , actually . 
it's a sometimes interesting remake that doesn't compare to the brilliant original . 
you're too conscious of the effort it takes to be this spontaneous . 
 . . . salaciously simplistic . 
feel bad for king , who's honestly trying , and schwartzman , who's shot himself in the foot . 
some actors steal scenes . tom green just gives them a bad odor . this self-infatuated goofball is far from the only thing wrong with the 

clumsy comedy stealing harvard , but he's the most obvious one . 
sometimes , fond memories should stay in the past : a lesson this film teaches all too well . 
the enormous comic potential of an oafish idiot impersonating an aristocrat remains sadly unrealized . 
shallow . 
begins as a promising meditation on one of america's most durable obsessions but winds up as a slender cinematic stunt . 
a monster combat thriller as impersonal in its relentlessness as the videogame series that inspired it . 
proof that a thriller can be sleekly shot , expertly cast , paced with crisp professionalism . . . and still be a letdown if its twists and 

turns hold no more surprise than yesterday's weather report . 
the reason we keep seeing the same movie with roughly the same people every year is because so many of us keep going and then , out of 

embarrassment or stupidity , not warning anyone . 
there's not much going on in this movie unless you simply decide to buy into the notion that something inexplicably strange once happened in 

point pleasant . 
in the second half of the film , frei's control loosens in direct proportion to the amount of screen time he gives nachtwey for self-analysis . 
director barry skolnick and his screenwriters glibly tick off every point of " the longest yard " playbook like a checklist . 
the furious coherence that [deniro] brings to this part only underscores the fuzzy sentimentality of the movie itself , which feels , as it 

plods toward the end , less like a movie than like the filmed reading of a script in need of polishing . 
oh , it's extreme , all right . extremely dumb . extremely confusing . extremely boring . 
we never really feel involved with the story , as all of its ideas remain just that : abstract ideas . 
for a shoot-'em-up , ballistic is oddly lifeless . 
one minute , you think you're watching a serious actioner ; the next , it's as though clips from the pink panther strikes again and/or sailor 

moon have been spliced in . 
what happened with pluto nash ? how did it ever get made ? 
we may never think of band camp as a geeky or nerdy thing again . 
opens as promising as any war/adventure film you'll ever see and dissolves into a routine courtroom drama , better suited for a movie titled " 

glory : a soldier's story . " 
the result is solemn and horrifying , yet strangely detached . 
these spiders can outrun a motorcycle and wrap a person in a sticky cocoon in seconds , but they fall short of being interesting or 

entertaining . 
a less-than-thrilling thriller . 
a long slog for anyone but the most committed pokemon fan . 
matthew mcconaughey tries , and fails , to control the screen with swaggering machismo and over-the-top lunacy . 
how on earth , or anywhere else , did director ron underwood manage to blow $100 million on this ? 
everyone connected to this movie seems to be part of an insider clique , which tends to breed formulaic films rather than fresh ones . 
with a story inspired by the tumultuous surroundings of los angeles , where feelings of marginalization loom for every dreamer with a burst 

bubble , the dogwalker has a few characters and ideas , but it never manages to put them on the same path . 
its lack of quality earns it a place alongside those other two recent dumas botch-jobs , the man in the iron mask and the musketeer . 
a benign but forgettable sci-fi diversion . 
the plot grinds on with yawn-provoking dullness . 
it's never a good sign when a film's star spends the entirety of the film in a coma . it's a worse sign when you begin to envy her condition . 
it doesn't help that the director and cinematographer stephen kazmierski shoot on grungy video , giving the whole thing a dirty , tasteless 

feel . 
desperately unfunny when it tries to makes us laugh and desperately unsuspenseful when it tries to make us jump out of our seats . 
this film's relationship to actual tension is the same as what christmas-tree flocking in a spray can is to actual snow : a poor -- if durable 

-- imitation . 
john mctiernan's botched remake may be subtler than norman jewison's 1975 ultraviolent futuristic corporate-sports saga . it's also stupider . 
director dirk shafer and co-writer greg hinton ride the dubious divide where gay porn reaches for serious drama . 
borrows from so many literary and cinematic sources that this future world feels absolutely deja vu . 
as [the characters] get more depressed , the story gets more tiresome , especially as it continues to mount a conspicuous effort to be profound 

. 
the acting by the over-25s lacks spark , with csokas particularly unconnected . 
though howard demonstrates a great eye as a director , this southern gothic drama is sadly a tough sit , with an undeveloped narrative and 

enough flashbacks and heavy-handed metaphors to choke a horse -- or at least slow him down to a canter . 
falters when it takes itself too seriously and when it depends too heavily on its otherwise talented cast to clown in situations that aren't 

funny . 
the fight scenes are fun , but it grows tedious . 
anyone who can count to five ( the film's target market ? ) can see where this dumbed-down concoction is going . 
all this turns out to be neither funny nor provocative - only dull . 
demme's loose approach kills the suspense . 
this idea has lost its originality . . . and neither star appears very excited at rehashing what was basically a one-joke picture . 
[plays] in broad outline as pandering middle-age buddy-comedy . 
the film is itself a sort of cinematic high crime , one that brings military courtroom dramas down very , very low . 
nothing more than a mediocre trifle . 
a turgid little history lesson , humourless and dull . 
too silly to be frightening , too stolid to be funny , it projects the same lazy affability as its nominal star , david arquette . 
if kaufman kept cameron diaz a prisoner in a cage with her ape , in his latest , he'd have them mate . 
trivial where it should be profound , and hyper-cliched where it should be sincere . 
it would be hard to think of a recent movie that has worked this hard to achieve this little fun . 
theology aside , why put someone who ultimately doesn't learn at the center of a kids' story ? 
all that ( powerpuff girls ) charm is present in the movie , but it's spread too thin . 
sometimes smart but more often sophomoric . 
the ill-conceived modern-day ending falls flat where it should deliver a moral punch . 
collateral damage is , despite its alleged provocation post-9/11 , an antique , in the end . as are its star , its attitude and its 

obliviousness . 
dawdles and drags when it should pop ; it doesn't even have the virtue of enough mindless violence to break up the tedium of all its 

generational bonding . 
its save-the-planet message clashes with its crass marketing . 
a great idea becomes a not-great movie . 
 . . . watching this film nearly provoked me to take my own life . and if the hours wins 'best picture' i just might . 
by the end , i was looking for something hard with which to bludgeon myself unconscious . 
not a movie but a live-action agitprop cartoon so shameless and coarse , it's almost funny . 
feels like six different movies fighting each other for attention . 
life is a crock -- or something like it . 
made by jackasses for jackasses . 
despite a powerful portrayal by binoche , it's a period romance that suffers from an overly deliberate pace and uneven narrative momentum . 
the picture is a primer on what happens when lack of know-how mixes with lack of give-a-damn . 
bartleby is a one-joke movie , and a bad joke at that . 
disjointed parody . 
given that both movies expect us to root for convicted violent felons over those assigned to protect us from same , we need every bit of 

sympathy the cons can muster ; this time , there isn't much . 
a bravura exercise in emptiness . 
philip k . dick must be turning in his grave , along with my stomach . 
despite the premise of a good story . . . it wastes all its star power on cliched or meaningless roles . 
all prints of this film should be sent to and buried on pluto . 
not only does the movie fail to make us part of its reality , it fails the most basic relevancy test as well . 
first good , then bothersome . excellent acting and direction . 
this goofy gangster yarn never really elevates itself from being yet another earnestly generic crime-busting comic vehicle -- a well-

intentioned remake that shows some spunk and promise but fails to register as anything distinctive or daring
it's difficult to say whether the tuxedo is more boring or embarrassing--i'm prepared to call it a draw . 
even as lame horror flicks go , this is lame . 
so routine , familiar and predictable , it raises the possibility that it wrote itself as a newly automated final draft computer program . 
sunshine state lacks the kind of dynamic that limbo offers , and in some ways is a rather indulgent piece . 
even legends like alfred hitchcock and john huston occasionally directed trifles . . . so it's no surprise to see a world-class filmmaker like 

zhang yimou behind the camera for a yarn that's ultimately rather inconsequential . 
a long-winded , predictable scenario . 
too close to phantom menace for comfort . 
 . . . silly humbuggery . . . 
although trying to balance self-referential humor and a normal ol' slasher plot seemed like a decent endeavor , the result doesn't fully 

satisfy either the die-hard jason fans or those who can take a good joke . 
too clunky and too busy ribbing itself to be truly entertaining . 
this movie is about lying , cheating , but loving the friends you betray . 
it smacks of purely commercial motivation , with no great love for the original . 
melanie eventually slugs the yankee . too bad the former murphy brown doesn't pop reese back . 
at the bottom rung of the series' entries . 
a real clunker . a well-made , thoughtful , well-acted clunker , but a clunker nonetheless . 
a dreary rip-off of goodfellas that serves as a muddled and offensive cautionary tale for hispanic americans . 
the picture , scored by a perversely cheerful marcus miller accordion/harmonica/banjo abomination , is a monument to bad in all its florid 

variety . 
good for a few unintentional laughs , " extreme ops " was obviously made for the " xxx " crowd , people who enjoy mindless action without the 

benefit of decent acting , writing , and direction . 
Öa big , baggy , sprawling carnival of a movie , stretching out before us with little rhyme or reason . 
a frustrating combination of strained humor and heavy-handed sentimentality . 
lawrence preaches strictly to the converted . 
as written by michael berg and michael j . wilson from a story by wilson , this relentless , all-wise-guys-all-the-time approach tries way too 

hard and gets tiring in no time at all . 
will probably stay in the shadow of its two older , more accessible qatsi siblings . 
just when the movie seems confident enough to handle subtlety , it dives into soapy bathos . 
choppy editing and too many repetitive scenes spoil what could have been an important documentary about stand-up comedy . 
 . . . the film falls back on the same old formula of teen sex , outrageous pranks and scenes designed to push the envelope of bad taste for 

laughs . 
the only thing in pauline and paulette that you haven't seen before is a scene featuring a football field-sized oriental rug crafted out of 

millions of vibrant flowers . 
if you're looking for comedy to be served up , better look elsewhere . 
it virtually defines a comedy that's strongly mediocre , with funny bits surfacing every once in a while . 
an instant candidate for worst movie of the year . 
despite its title , amy's orgasm is not a porno , though it is as tedious as one . 
like a tone-deaf singer at a benefit concert , john q . is a bad movie appearing on behalf of a good cause . 
adam sandler is to gary cooper what a gnat is to a racehorse . 
what kids will discover is a new collectible . what parents will suspect is that they're watching a 76-minute commercial . 
beers , who , when she's given the right lines , can charm the paint off the wall . . . [but] the script goes wrong at several key junctures . 
without september 11 , collateral damage would have been just another bad movie . now it's a bad , embarrassing movie . 
drags along in a dazed and enervated , drenched-in-the- past numbness . 
there's a disturbing 'great white hope' undertone to the other side of heaven that subtly undermines its message of christian love and 

compassion . 
unless you are in dire need of a diesel fix , there is no real reason to see it . wait for video -- and then don't rent it . 
the attempt is courageous , even if the result is wildly uneven . 
there's something fundamental missing from this story : something or someone to care about . 
too much of this well-acted but dangerously slow thriller feels like a preamble to a bigger , more complicated story , one that never 

materializes . 
when a film is created solely because it's a marketable product , soulless and ugly movies like this are the result . let your silly childhood 

nostalgia slumber unmolested . 
unfortunately , heartbreak hospital wants to convey the same kind of haughtiness in its own sketchy material but this territory has already 

been explored previously with better aplomb and sardonic wit . 
the more kevin costner rests on his pretty-boy laurels , the public is , regrettably , going to have tepid films like dragonfly tossed at them 

. 
[it's] difficult to get beyond the overall blandness of american chai , despite its likable performances and refreshingly naive point of view . 
the latest installment in the pokemon canon , pokemon 4ever is surprising less moldy and trite than the last two , likely because much of the 

japanese anime is set in a scenic forest where pokemon graze in peace . 
taken purely as an exercise in style , this oppressively gloomy techno-horror clambake is impossible to ignore . but as a movie , it's a 

humorless , disjointed mess . 
if myers decides to make another austin powers movie , maybe he should just stick with austin and dr evil . 
the backyard battles you staged with your green plastic army men were more exciting and almost certainly made more sense . 
too stupid to be satire , too obviously hateful to be classified otherwise , frank novak's irritating slice of lumpen life is as reliably 

soul-killing as its title is nearly meaningless . 
overly stylized with lots of flash black-&-white freeze frames reminiscent of a pseudo-hip luxury car commercial , ( it's ) at its worst when 

it's actually inside the ring . 
what is captured during the conceptual process doesn't add up to a sufficient explanation of what the final dance work , the selection , became 

in its final form . 
if this is satire , it's the smug and self-congratulatory kind that lets the audience completely off the hook . 
had the film boasted a clearer , more memorable , the creepiness would have gotten under the skin . 
these people wouldn't know subtle characterization if it put on a giant furry monster costume and then gave them a lapdance . 
imagine if you will a tony hawk skating video interspliced with footage from behind enemy lines and set to jersey shore techno . 
it doesn't quite work , but there's enough here to make us look forward to the russos' next offering . 
any film featuring young children threatened by a terrorist bomb can no longer pass as mere entertainment . 
the director's twitchy sketchbook style and adroit perspective shifts grow wearisome amid leaden pacing and indifferent craftsmanship ( most 

notably wretched sound design ) . 
about as satisfying and predictable as the fare at your local drive through . 
apparently kissing leads to suicide attempts and tragic deaths . marisa tomei is good , but just a kiss is just a mess . 
opens at a funeral , ends on the protagonist's death bed and doesn't get much livelier in the three hours in between . 
the noble tradition of men in drag hits an all-time low in sorority boys , whose makers apparently believe that women's clothing can cover up 

any deficiency in acting , writing or direction . 
to portray modern women the way director davis has done is just unthinkable . 
too simple for its own good . 
flaccid drama and exasperatingly slow journey . 
a chaotic panorama that's too busy flying a lot of metaphoric flags . 
suffers from rambling , repetitive dialogue and the visual drabness endemic to digital video . 
the screenplay sabotages the movie's strengths at almost every juncture . all the characters are stereotypes , and their interaction is 

numbingly predictable . 
a trashy , exploitative , thoroughly unpleasant experience . 
newcomer helmer kevin donovan is hamstrung by a badly handled screenplay of what is really an amusing concept ñ a high-tech tux that 

transforms its wearer into a superman . 
shouldn't have been allowed to use the word " new " in its title , because there's not an original character , siuation or joke in the entire 

movie . 
often silly ñ and gross ñ but it's rarely as moronic as some campus gross-out films . 
the advantage of a postapocalyptic setting is that it can be made on the cheap . any rock pile will do for a set . reign of fire has the 

disadvantage of also looking cheap . 
it's exactly what you'd expect . 
the performances are so leaden , michael rymer's direction is so bloodless and the dialogue is so corny that the audience laughs out loud . 
a subtle variation on i spit on your grave in which our purported heroine pathologically avenges a hatred for men . 
reggio's trippy , ambitious downer can also sometimes come across like nothing more than a glorified nike ad . 
as tweedy talks about canning his stockbroker and repairing his pool , you yearn for a few airborne tv sets or nude groupies on the nod to 

liven things up . 
if somebody was bored and . . . decided to make a dull , pretentious version of jesus' son , they'd come up with something like bart 

freundlich's world traveler . 
the best you can say about it is it's so uninspired , it barely gives one pause when considering some of the other dreck out there right now . 
a tough go , but leigh's depth and rigor , and his skill at inspiring accomplished portrayals that are all the more impressive for their lack 

of showiness , offsets to a notable degree the film's often-mined and despairing milieu . 
an overstuffed compendium of teen-catholic-movie dogma . 
too leisurely paced and visually drab for its own good , it succeeds in being only sporadically amusing . 
ben affleck as jack ryan , tom clancy's intrepid hero ? ridiculous . what's next ? d . j . qualls as indiana jones ? or tom green as han solo ? 
eh . 
the movie's biggest offense is its complete and utter lack of tension . 
the film is directed by wally wolodarsky from a script by joe jarvis and greg coolidge . these are names to remember , in order to avoid them 

in the future . 
if this is the resurrection of the halloween franchise , it would have been better off dead . 
this formulaic chiller will do little to boost stallone's career . 
i saw knockaround guys yesterday , and already the details have faded like photographs from the spanish-american war . . . it's so unmemorable 

that it turned my ballpoint notes to invisible ink . 
though avary has done his best to make something out of ellis' nothing novel , in the end , his rules is barely worth following . 
the average local news columnist has a bigger rant on the war between modern landscape architecture and small-town america . 
no worse than a lot of the crap we've been offered this summer , and slightly better than men in black 2 as far as slapdash extraterrestrial 

comedies go . 
the plot is so predictable and sentimental that viewers are likely to lose interest before sandrine and her goats walk off into the sunset . 
at first , the sight of a blind man directing a film is hilarious , but as the film goes on , the joke wears thin . 
never again swings between false sentiment and unfunny madcap comedy and , along the way , expects the audience to invest in the central 

relationship as some kind of marriage of true minds . 
the story itself is uninteresting , and the songs are painfully undistinguished : they might be giants' so to be one of us may be the most 

tuneless tune ever composed . 
este È apenas mais um ( longo ) episÛdio do programa da mtv . a ˙nica diferen?a È que , desta vez , a paramount teve o mau gosto de exibi-lo 

nos cinemas . 
technically , the film is about as interesting as an insurance commercial . 
the title's lameness should clue you in on how bad the movie is . 
the parts are better than the whole ( bizarre , funny , tragic - like love in new york ) . 
while the film shuns the glamour or glitz that an american movie might demand , scherfig tosses us a romantic scenario that is just as 

simplistic as a hollywood production . 
the humor is hinged on the belief that knees in the crotch , elbows in the face and spit in the eye are inherently funny . 
it's a movie forged in the fires of chick flick hell . 
its characters are thinner than cardboard -- or even comic-book paper . 
any one episode of the sopranos would send this ill-conceived folly to sleep with the fishes . 
feels like the grittiest movie that was ever made for the lifetime cable television network . 
lanie's professional success means she must be a failure at life , because she's driven by ambition and doesn't know how to have fun . 
credit must be given to harland williams , michael rosenbaum and barry watson , who inject far more good-natured spirit and talent into this 

project than it deserves
denzel washington's efforts are sunk by all the sanctimony . 
if this holiday movie is supposed to be a gift , somebody unwrapped it early , took out all the good stuff , and left behind the crap ( 

literally ) . 
so faithful to the doldrums of the not-quite-urban , not-quite-suburban milieu as to have viewers recoiling from the reality check . 
rambles on in a disjointed , substandard fashion from one poorly executed action sequence to the next . 
there's an audience for it , but it could have been funnier and more innocent . 
i can only imagine one thing worse than kevin spacey trying on an irish accent , and that's sultry linda fiorentino doing the same thing . 
an awkward and indigestible movie . 
the movie has very little to offer besides unintentional laughs . 
haneke keeps us at arm's length . guided more by intellect than heart , his story flattens instead of sharpens . 
all the well-meaningness in the world can't erase the fact that the believer feels like a 12-step program for the jewish nazi . 
like most sequels , it takes what worked last time , repeats it and adds more characters , more stunts , more stuff in attempt to camouflage 

its sameness . 
there's no way to sort out the mess in our heads and deconstruct where it all went wrong . this is an hour and a half of daydreaming . 
message movie or an action-packed submarine spectacular ? alas , it's neither . 
no movement , no yuks , not much of anything . 
'dragonfly' is a movie about a bus wreck that turns into a film wreck . 
thirty years ago , it would have been groundbreaking . now it's just tired . 
heavy-handed exercise in time-vaulting literary pretension . 
the movie is too cute to take itself too seriously , but it still feels like it was made by some very stoned college students . 
a thinly veiled excuse for wilson to play his self-deprecating act against murphy's well-honed prima donna shtick . 
a minor picture with a major identity crisis -- it's sort of true and it's sort of bogus and it's ho-hum all the way through . 
the movie succumbs to being nothing more than a formulaic chase in the dark . 
plays as hollow catharsis , with lots of tears but very little in the way of insights . 
it will come as no surprise that the movie isn't scary . but here's the real damn : it isn't funny , either . 
quick : who wants to see a comedy about shoddy airport security ? 
the reason i found myself finally unmoved by this film , which is immaculately produced and has serious things to say , is that it comes across 

rather too plainly as allegory . 
what you get with empire is a movie you've seen many times before , repackaged as new material because there is a latino in the lead . 
cho's fans are sure to be entertained ; it's only fair in the interest of full disclosure to say that -- on the basis of this film alone -- i'm 

not one of them . 
looks awfully like one long tourist spot for a mississippi that may never have existed outside of a scriptwriter's imagination . 
the period -- swinging london in the time of the mods and the rockers -- gets the once-over once again in gangster no . 1 , but falls apart 

long before the end . 
high crimes miscasts nearly every leading character . 
the overall feel of the film is pretty cheesy , but there's still a real sense that the star trek tradition has been honored as best it can , 

given the embarrassing script and weak direction . 
de niro looks bored , murphy recycles murphy , and you mentally add showtime to the pile of hollywood dreck that represents nothing more than 

the art of the deal . 
i didn't believe for a moment in these villains or their plot . 
another rent installment for the ian fleming estate . 
with danilo donati's witty designs and dante spinotti's luscious cinematography , this might have made a decent children's movie -- if only 

benigni hadn't insisted on casting himself in the title role . 
so lazy and slipshod it confuses the mere flashing of kinky soft-core imagery with naughty fun . 
though it draws several decent laughs , it's low-cal woody at best . 
has little on its mind aside from scoring points with drag gags . 
britney's performance cannot be faulted . lucy's a dull girl , that's all . 
 " the kid stays in the picture " is a great story , terrifically told by the man who wrote it but this cliff notes edition is a cheat . 
well-shot but badly written tale set in a future ravaged by dragons . 
sadly , hewitt's forte is leaning forward while wearing low-cut gowns , not making snappy comebacks . 
if melville is creatively a great whale , this film is canned tuna . 
this film is so slick , superficial and trend-hoppy , that it's easy to imagine that a new software program spit out the screenplay . 
just one more collection of penis , breast and flatulence gags in search of a story . or a profit . or some damn thing . 
the acting is stiff , the story lacks all trace of wit , the sets look like they were borrowed from gilligan's island -- and the cgi scooby 

might well be the worst special-effects creation of the year . 
enough trivializes an important crisis , reduces it to an almost comic embarrassment . 
the makers have forsaken the entertaining elements of the original and , instead , rehash old jokes and leave any life at the doorstep . i like 

frank the pug , though . 
a restrained ribisi convinces as an italian , though if ever a movie needed one of the actor's whiny jags to pump it up , this has to be among 

the rare ones . 
gee , a second assassin shot kennedy ? moot point . 
a hysterical yet humorless disquisition on the thin line between sucking face and literally sucking face . 
needless to say , the dramatics that follow are utter hooey . 
the problem is that rather than dramatizing this premise , mr . desplechin is content to state it . 
madonna still can't act a lick . 
even the imaginative gore can't hide the musty scent of todd farmer's screenplay , which is a simple retread of the 1979 alien , with a plucky 

heroine battling a monster loose in a spaceship . 
if you pitch your expectations at an all time low , you could do worse than this oddly cheerful -- but not particularly funny -- body-switching 

farce . 
the episodic film makes valid points about the depersonalization of modern life . but the characters tend to be cliches whose lives are never 

fully explored . 
serry does a fine job of capturing the climate of the times and , perhaps unwittingly , relating it to what is happening in america in 2002 . 

but hard-to-believe plot twists force the movie off track in its final half hour . 
don't let your festive spirit go this far . 
though the book runs only about 300 pages , it is so densely packed . . . that even an ambitious adaptation and elaborate production like mr . 

schepisi's seems skimpy and unclear . 
hey , at least the title of this film lets you know exactly where it's heading . 
intended to be a comedy about relationships , this wretched work falls flat in just about every conceivable area . 
sensitive though not quite revelatory documentary . 
director brian levant , who never strays far from his sitcom roots , skates blithely from one implausible situation to another , pausing only 

to tie up loose ends with more bows than you'll find on a french poodle . 
 . . . perhaps the heaviest , most joyless movie ever made about giant dragons taking over the world . 
suggests puns about ingredients and soup and somebody being off their noodle , but let's just say the ingredients don't quite add up to a meal 

. 
i'd give real money to see the perpetrators of chicago torn apart by dingoes . 
movies like this are selling the old european candor , the old wink of 'bold' revelation . but in 2002 , such revelations wilt . 
the timing in nearly every scene seems a half beat off . 
i admire it and yet cannot recommend it , because it overstays its natural running time . 
a fairly by-the-books blend of action and romance with sprinklings of intentional and unintentional comedy . 
flounders due to the general sense that no two people working on the production had exactly the same thing in mind . 
even if you feel like you've seen this movie a thousand times before , it is kind of enjoyable thanks mainly to belushi's easy-going 

likableness . 
the story bogs down in a mess of purposeless violence . 
despite some gulps the film is a fuzzy huggy . 
mckay deflates his piece of puffery with a sour cliche and heavy doses of mean-spiritedness
a recipe for cinematic disaster . . . part quentin tarantino , part guy ritchie , and part 1960s spy spoof , it's all bad . 
the cumulative effect of the relentless horror on parade numbs the movie's power as a work of drama . 
another big , dumb action movie in the vein of xxx , the transporter is riddled with plot holes big enough for its titular hero to drive his 

sleek black bmw through . 
aaliyah rarely dampens her diva persona enough to spark genuine chemistry with townsend . when she speaks , her creepy egyptian demigod voice 

is as computer processed and overproduced as it was in her music . 
outrageousness is all plympton seemed to be going for this time . we miss the quirky amazement that used to come along for an integral part of 

the ride . 
much of what is meant to be 'inspirational' and 'uplifting' is simply distasteful to audiences not already sharing [the movie's] mindset . 
well before it's over , beijing bicycle begins spinning its wheels . 
home alone goes hollywood , a funny premise until the kids start pulling off stunts not even steven spielberg would know how to do . besides , 

real movie producers aren't this nice . 
[nelson's] movie about morally compromised figures leaves viewers feeling compromised , unable to find their way out of the fog and the ashes . 
passion , lip-synching , tragedy , and lots of really really high notes . for me , this opera isn't a favorite , so it's a long time before the 

fat lady sings . 
looks like a high school film project completed the day before it was due . 
truth to tell , if you've seen more than half-a-dozen horror films , there's nothing here you haven't seen before . 
abandons all pretense of creating historical context and waltzes off into a hectic soap about the ups and downs of the heavy breathing between 

the two artists . 
even die-hard fans of japanese animation . . . will find this one a challenge . 
filmmakers have to dig deep to sink this low . fortunately for all involved , this movie is likely to disappear as quickly as an ice cube 

thrown into a pot of boiling water . 
the movie gets muted and routine . 
the issue of faith is not explored very deeply
it's a bad sign when you're rooting for the film to hurry up and get to its subjects' deaths just so the documentary will be over , but it's 

indicative of how uncompelling the movie is unless it happens to cover your particular area of interest . 
the situations and jokes are as predictable and as lowbrow as the endless pratfalls the boys take in their high heels . 
it's frustrating to see these guys -- who are obviously pretty clever -- waste their talent on parodies of things they probably thought were 

funniest when they were high . 
i was perplexed to watch it unfold with an astonishing lack of passion or uniqueness . 
k-19 may not hold a lot of water as a submarine epic , but it holds even less when it turns into an elegiacally soggy saving private ryanovich 

. 
a very stylish but ultimately extremely silly tale . . . a slick piece of nonsense but nothing more . 
automatically pegs itself for the straight-to-video sci-fi rental shelf . 
black-and-white and unrealistic . 
the film is like a series of beginnings and middles that never take off . 
feels less like it's about teenagers , than it was written by teenagers . 
ja rule and kurupt should have gotten to rap . it would have benefitted the dialogue . 
a standard haunted house tale transplanted to the high seas . 
elicits more groans from the audience than jar jar binks , scrappy doo and scooby dumb , all wrapped up into one . 
it's badly acted , blandly directed , and could have been scripted by someone who just graduated from elementary school . 
 in the end , white oleander isn't an adaptation of a novel . it's a flashy , star-splashed reduction . 
this film , starring anthony hopkins and chris rock , is your typical 'fish out of water' story . you've seen them a million times . just one 

problem : fish out of water usually die . this one does . 
the angst-ridden , affluent slacker characters are more grating than engaging . 
a soggy , shapeless mess . . . just a dumb excuse for a waterlogged equivalent of a haunted-house movie . 
men in black ii has sequel-itis something fierce . an ungainly , comedy-deficient , b-movie rush job . . . 
a combination of standard , stiff tv-style animation and snazzy-looking digital effects that do little to disguise the fact that the characters 

barely move . 
an unsatisfying hybrid of blair witch and typical stalk-and-slash fare , where the most conservative protagonist is always the last one living 

. 
say this for the soundtrack , it drowns out the lousy dialogue . 
after seeing swept away , i feel sorry for madonna . 
instead of kicking off the intrigue and suspense and mystery of the whole thing , hart's war , like the st . louis rams in the super bowl , 

waits until after halftime to get started . 
two-bit potboiler . 
a gob of drivel so sickly sweet , even the eager consumers of moore's pasteurized ditties will retch it up like rancid crËme br?lÈe . 
maudlin and melodramatic we expected . boring we didn't . 
never quite transcends jokester status . . . and the punchline doesn't live up to barry's dead-eyed , perfectly chilled delivery . 
the film's bathos often overwhelms what could have been a more multifaceted look at this interesting time and place . 
it almost plays like solaris , but with guns and jokes . 
a baffling misfire , and possibly the weakest movie [woody allen] has made in the last twenty years . 
it won't be long before you'll spy i spy at a video store near you . 
this film looks like it was produced in 1954 , shelved for 48 years , and repackaged for a 2002 audience . 
propelled not by characters but by caricatures . 
there is not an ounce of honesty in the entire production . 
this extremely unfunny film clocks in at 80 minutes , but feels twice as long . 
earnest but earthbound . . . a slow , soggy , soporific , visually dank crime melodrama/character study that would be more at home on the small 

screen but for its stellar cast . 
the pivotal narrative point is so ripe the film can't help but go soft and stinky . 
for all its alleged youthful fire , xxx is no less subservient to bond's tired formula of guns , girls and gadgets while brandishing a new 

action hero . 
a predictable and stereotypical little b-movie . 
if i spy were funny ( enough ) or exciting ( enough ) then it would be fairly simple to forgive the financial extortion it's trying to reap 

from the moviegoing public . 
frustratingly , dridi tells us nothing about el gallo other than what emerges through his music . 
places a slightly believable love triangle in a difficult-to-swallow setting , and then disappointingly moves the story into the realm of an 

improbable thriller . 
stephen earnhart's documentary is a decomposition of healthy eccentric inspiration and ambition ñ wearing a cloak of unsentimental , 

straightforward text ñ when it's really an exercise in gross romanticization of the delusional personality type . 
a very average science fiction film . 
undone by its overly complicated and derivative screenplay , the glacier-paced direction and the stereotypical characters . 
how anyone over the age of 2 can stomach the touchy-feely message this preachy produce promotes is beyond us . 
the sort of movie that gives tastelessness a bad rap . 
the cold and dreary weather is a perfect metaphor for the movie itself , which contains few laughs and not much drama . 
the plot is straight off the shelf , the performances are television- caliber and the message of providing solace through deception is a little 

creepy . 
ordinary melodrama that is heavy on religious symbols but wafer-thin on dramatic substance
a whimsical if predictable time-travel fable marred by a willful single-mindedness . 
those who managed to avoid the deconstructionist theorizing of french philosopher jacques derrida in college can now take an 85-minute brush-up 

course with the documentary derrida . or , you can do something fun tonight . 
jolie's performance vanishes somewhere between her hair and her lips . 
as with too many studio pics , plot mechanics get in the way of what should be the lighter-than-air adventure . 
static , repetitive , muddy and blurry , hey arnold ! would seem to have a lock on the title of ugliest movie of the year . 
for all of the contemporary post-colonialist consciousness that kapur tries to bring to the four feathers , the oddest thing about the movie is 

how it winds up affirming the same damn moldy values the material has always held dear . 
un thriller manquÈ qui tombe sur les nerfs presque dËs la premiËre image . 
when it comes to entertainment , children deserve better than pokemon 4ever . 
what the four feathers lacks is genuine sweep or feeling or even a character worth caring about . 
while benigni ( who stars and co-wrote ) seems to be having a wonderful time , he might be alone in that . 
yes , 4ever is harmless in the extreme and it'll mute your kids for nearly 80 minutes , but why not just treat the little yard apes to the real 

deal and take them to spirited away ? 
preposterous and tedious , sonny is spiked with unintentional laughter that , unfortunately , occurs too infrequently to make the film even a 

guilty pleasure . 
calling this movie brainless would be paying it a compliment : it's more like entertainment for trolls . 
none of these characters resembles anyone you've ever met in real life , unless you happen to know annoyingly self-involved people who speak in 

glib sentences that could have only come from the pen of a screenwriter . 
 . . . just a big mess of a movie , full of images and events , but no tension or surprise . 
as elegantly crafted as it often is , anderson's movie is essentially a one-trick pony that , hampered by an undeveloped script , ultimately 

pulls up lame . 
splashes its drama all over the screen , subjecting its audience and characters to action that feels not only manufactured , but also so false 

you can see the filmmakers' puppet strings . 
 . . . has virtually no script at all . . . 
will only satisfy those who can't tell the difference between the good , the bad and the ugly . 
this kind of dark comedy requires a delicate , surgical touch . but director danny devito and screenwriter adam resnick ( remember cabin boy ? 

) just pound away . 
at times , however , dogtown and z-boys lapses into an insider's lingo and mindset that the uninitiated may find hard to follow , or care about 

. 
rather quickly , the film falls into a soothing formula of brotherly conflict and reconciliation . 
screenwriters scott abbott and michael petroni have turned rice's complex akasha into a cartoon monster . 
the writers , director wally wolodarsky , and all the actors should start their own coeducational fraternity : kappa rho alpha phi . 
bad beyond belief and ridiculous beyond description . 
the new faces are interesting , but the old story isn't , especially when it starts to seem more improvised than scripted . 
most of the action setups are incoherent . 
liman , of swingers and go , makes his big-budget action film debut something of a clunker as he delivers a long , low-heat chase , interrupted 

by a middling car chase . 
 . . . surprisingly inert for a movie in which the main character travels back and forth between epochs . 
the problem isn't that the movie hits so close to home so much as that it hits close to home while engaging in such silliness as that snake-

down-the-throat business and the inevitable shot of schwarzenegger outrunning a fireball . 
dreary , highly annoying . . . 'some body' will appeal to no one . 
a prison comedy that never really busts out of its comfy little cell . 
there's something deeply creepy about never again , a new arrow in schaeffer's quiver of ineptitudes . 
the problem with concept films is that if the concept is a poor one , there's no saving the movie . sorry , charlie
a painfully leaden film destined for pre-dawn cable television slots . 
blessed with immense physical prowess he may well be , but ahola is simply not an actor . and in truth , cruel as it may sound , he makes 

arnold schwarzenegger look like spencer tracy . 
the cartoon that isn't really good enough to be on afternoon tv is now a movie that isn't really good enough to be in theaters . 
shocking only in that it reveals the filmmaker's bottomless pit of self-absorption . 
this pep-talk for faith , hope and charity does little to offend , but if saccharine earnestness were a crime , the film's producers would be 

in the clink for life . 
all ends well , sort of , but the frenzied comic moments never click . 
if this is the danish idea of a good time , prospective tourists might want to consider a different destination -- some jolly country embroiled 

in a bloody civil war , perhaps . 
formula 51 is so trite that even yu's high-energy action stylings can't break through the stupor . 
only a few minutes elapse before the daddy of all slashers arrives , still with the boiler suit and white mask , which look remarkably clean 

for a guy who has been mass-murdering since 1978 but has never been seen doing laundry . 
when the painted backdrops in a movie are more alive than its characters , you know you're in trouble . 
[two] fairly dull -- contrasting and interlocking stories about miserable scandinavian settlers in 18th-century canada , and yuppie sailboaters 

in the here and now . 
the film is really not so much bad as bland . 
the central story lacks punch . 
though ganesh is successful in a midlevel sort of way , there's nothing so striking or fascinating or metaphorically significant about his 

career as to rate two hours of our attention . 
this may be the dumbest , sketchiest movie on record about an aspiring writer's coming-of-age . 
succumbs to the same kind of maudlin , sentimental mysticism that mars the touched by an angel school of non-god spiritual-uplift movies . 
a harmless and mildly amusing family comedy . 
what was subtle and mystifying in the novella is now broad and farcical . 
the kids often appear to be reading the lines and are incapable of conveying any emotion . 
 " men in black ii , " has all the earmarks of a sequel . the story is less vibrant , the jokes are a little lukewarm , but will anyone really 

care ? 
sucking all the 'classic' out of robert louis stevenson's treasure island and filling the void with sci-fi video game graphics and disney-fied 

adolescent angst . . . 
this 72-minute film does have some exciting scenes , but it's a tad slow . 
while super troopers is above academy standards , its quintet of writers could still use some more schooling . 
a mix of velocity and idiocy , this ruinous remake lacks the brawn -- and the brains -- of the 1970s original . 
the low-budget full frontal was one of the year's murkiest , intentionally obscure and self-indulgent pictures , and solaris is its big-budget 

brother . 
the plot is very clever , but boyd weighs it down with too many characters and events , all intertwined and far too complicated to keep track 

of . 
the film seems all but destined to pop up on a television screen in the background of a scene in a future quentin tarantino picture
a free-for-all of half-baked thoughts , clumsily used visual tricks and self-indulgent actor moments . 
apallingly absurd . . . the chemistry or lack thereof between newton and wahlberg could turn an imax theater into a 9 " black and white 

portable tv . 
a well acted and well intentioned snoozer . 
the smug , oily demeanor that donovan adopts throughout the stupidly named pipe dream is just repulsive . 
must-see viewing for anyone involved in the high-tech industry . others may find it migraine-inducing , despite moore's attempts at whimsy and 

spoon feeding . 
despite its good nature and some genuinely funny moments , super troopers suffers from a bad case of arrested development . 
it's hard not to feel you've just watched a feature-length video game with some really heavy back story . 
i watched the brainless insanity of no such thing with mounting disbelief . 
this limp gender-bender-baller from a first-time director and rookie screenwriter steals wholesale from that 1982's tootsie , forgetting only 

to retain a single laugh . 
kwan makes the mix-and- match metaphors intriguing , while lulling us into torpor with his cultivated allergy to action . 
while obviously an extremely personal work , it remains inextricably stuck in an emotionally unavailable rut . 
any movie this boring should be required to have ushers in the theater that hand you a cup of coffee every few minutes . like a marathon runner 

trying to finish a race , you need a constant influx of liquid just to get through it . 
i loved looking at this movie . i just didn't care as much for the story . 
has all the poignancy of a hallmark card and all the comedy of a gallagher stand-up act . 
it doesn't do the original any particular dishonor , but neither does it exude any charm or personality . 
fear dot com is so rambling and disconnected it never builds any suspense . 
a gorgeous , somnolent show that is splendidly mummified and thoroughly unsurprising . 
a semi-autobiographical film that's so sloppily written and cast that you cannot believe anyone more central to the creation of bugsy than the 

caterer had anything to do with it . 
it feels like a community theater production of a great broadway play : even at its best , it will never hold a candle to the original . 
the film apparently takes place in a fantasy world where people in hotel hallways recite poetry in voice-over instead of speaking to each other 

. 
the element of surprise might be the only thing femme fatale has going for it . 
it's the kind of movie you can't quite recommend because it is all windup and not much of a pitch , yet you can't bring yourself to dislike it 

. 
maybe it's asking too much , but if a movie is truly going to inspire me , i want a little more than this . 
a graceless , witless attempt at mating some like it hot with the wwii espionage thriller . 
the story and characters are nowhere near gripping enough . 
based on a david leavitt story , the film shares that writer's usual blend of observant cleverness , too-facile coincidence and slightly 

noxious preciousness . 
just like every other seagal movie , only louder and without that silly ponytail . 
to enjoy this movie's sharp dialogue and delightful performance by jolie and burns , you have to gloss over the no sense ending . 
national lampoon's van wilder could be the worst thing to come out of national lampoon since class reunion
this is a great subject for a movie , but hollywood has squandered the opportunity , using it as a prop for warmed-over melodrama and the kind 

of choreographed mayhem that director john woo has built his career on . 
ecks this one off your must-see list . 
overall , the film misses the brilliance of jelinek's novel by some way . it settles for being merely grim . 
the irwins emerge unscathed , but the fictional footage is unconvincing and criminally badly acted . 
it's not thirsty , consuming passion which drives this movie . no , it's the repetition of said behavior , and so children of the century is 

more mindless love than mad , more grating and boring than anything else . 
just because it really happened to you , honey , doesn't mean that it's interesting to anyone else . 
just like the deli sandwich : lots of ham , lots of cheese , with a sickly sweet coating to disguise its excrescence until just after ( or 

during ) consumption of its second half . 
every so often a movie comes along that confirms one's worse fears about civilization as we know it . the new guy is one of them . 
this isn't a " friday " worth waiting for . 
everything that's worthwhile about collision course can already be seen on television . 
if this movie belonged to a sorority , it would be called beta alpha delta . 
not a cheap slasher flick , as the subject matter would suggest , but is a little like a nature film , showing a patient predator and his 

foolish prey . 
uneasy mishmash of styles and genres . 
herzog is obviously looking for a moral to his fable , but the notion that a strong , unified showing among germany and eastern european jews 

might have changed 20th-century history is undermined by ahola's inadequate performance . 
all in all , there's only one thing to root for : expulsion for everyone . 
beyond a handful of mildly amusing lines . . . there just isn't much to laugh at . 
secret ballot is too contemplative to be really funny . 
the film's center will not hold . 
myers never knows when to let a gag die ; thus , we're subjected to one mind-numbingly lengthy riff on poo and pee jokes after another . 
too lazy to take advantage of its semi-humorous premise . 
a great ending doesn't make up for a weak movie , and crazy as hell doesn't even have a great ending . 
dialogue-heavy and too cerebral for its own good -- or , at any rate , too cerebral for its racy subject matter . 
its over-reliance on genre conventions , character types and formulaic conflict resolutions crushes all the goodwill it otherwise develops . 
as an actor , the rock is aptly named . 
a mostly tired retread of several other mob tales . 
i wish i could say " thank god it's friday " , but the truth of the matter is i was glad when it was over . 
nothing about it fits . 
as it abruptly crosscuts among the five friends , it fails to lend the characters' individual stories enough dramatic resonance to make us care 

about them . 
somehow we're meant to buy that this doting mother would shun her kids , travel to one of the most dangerous parts of the world , don fatigues 

and become g . i . jane . 
the cast is so low-wattage that none of the characters comes off as big . . . and the setting remains indistinct . 
consider the title's clunk-on-the-head that suggests the overtime someone put in to come up with an irritatingly unimaginative retread concept 

. 
the movie quickly drags on becoming boring and predictable . i tried to read the time on my watch . 
the film makes a tragic error by going on for too long , trying to mirror every subsequent event in chinese history : war , revolution , 

communism , etc . 
johnson has , in his first film , set himself a task he is not nearly up to . 
ultimately the project comes across as clinical , detached , uninvolving , possibly prompting audience members to wonder , 'what's the point ? 

'
the two leads are almost good enough to camouflage the dopey plot , but so much naturalistic small talk , delivered in almost muffled exchanges 

, eventually has a lulling effect . 
the film meant well in its horse tale about freedom , but wasn't able to reach the heart because it was too overbearing . 
the movie is as far as you can get from racy , to the point where it almost stops the blood flow to your brain ; it has a dull , costumey feel 

. 
once the audience figure out what's being said , the filmmaker's relative passivity will make it tough for them to really care . 
there's nothing provocative about this film save for the ways in which it studiously avoids provoking thought . 
it seems just a long , convoluted ploy to get men into drag -- period drag , no less . 
the premise for this kegger comedy probably sounded brilliant four six-packs and a pitcher of margaritas in , but the film must have been 

written . . . in the thrall of a vicious hangover . 
even by dumb action-movie standards , ballistic : ecks vs . sever is a dumb action movie . 
the film equivalent of a toy chest whose contents get scattered over the course of 80 minutes . 
just a bloody mess . 
creepy but ultimately unsatisfying thriller . 
martin scorsese cria um espet·culo visual que n?o possui alma - um filme esteticamente belo , mas emocionalmente frio . 
you would be better off investing in the worthy emi recording that serves as the soundtrack , or the home video of the 1992 malfitano-domingo 

production . 
has something to say . . . but it is a statement and issue worthy of a much more thoughtfulness and insight than a melodramatic and wholly 

predictable thriller . 
bears is bad . not 'terrible filmmaking' bad , but more like , 'i once had a nightmare like this , and it's now coming true' bad . 
as is most commonly case with projects such noble and lofty ambitions , the film is less poetic than simply pretentious . 
george , hire a real director and good writers for the next installment , please . 
for a film about two mismatched buddies , crystal and de niro share little screen time and even less chemistry . 
however clever nelson has been in providing variation within the confines of her structure and staging , the question remains whether this 

should , indeed , have been presented as a theatrical release . 
extreme oops - oops , ops , no matter how you spell it , it's still a mistake to go see it . 
what could and should have been biting and droll is instead a tepid waste of time and talent . 
what will , most likely , turn out to be the most repellent movie of 2002 . 
 . . . too dull to enjoy . 
a morality tale whose thought-provoking potential is hampered by a made-for-tv look , rigid performances and an asinine 'twist' that brazenly 

rips off the sixth sense . 
here's a self-congratulatory 3d imax rah-rah . 
eastwood is an icon of moviemaking , one of the best actors , directors and producers around , responsible for some excellent work . but even a 

hero can stumble sometimes . 
a sophomoric exploration of 'life problems' most people solved long ago -- or at least got tired of hearing people kvetch about . 
it's all very cute , though not terribly funny if you're more than six years old . 
the impact of the armenian genocide is diluted by too much stage business in the modern day . 
[u]nrelentingly stupid . 
going to the website may be just as fun ( and scary ) as going to the film . 
lacking gravitas , macdowell is a placeholder for grief , and ergo this sloppy drama is an empty vessel . leave these flowers unpicked -- 

they're dead on the vine . 
admirable , certainly , but not much fun to watch . for caine lovers only . 
a shambles of a movie--visually unattractive , unbearably loud and utterly silly . . . its hilarity is completely unintentional . 
de niro may enjoy the same free ride from critics afforded to clint eastwood in the lazy bloodwork . but like bruce springsteen's gone-to-pot 

asbury park , new jersey , this sad-sack waste of a movie is a city of ruins . 
no , it's not nearly as good as any of its influences . 
a reasonably efficient mechanism , but it offers few surprises and finds its stars slumming in territory they should have avoided . 
the rest of the plot is impossible to explain without blowing whatever tension there is , although it's more comedy than suspense de palma 

creates . 
human nature talks the talk , but it fails to walk the silly walk that distinguishes the merely quirky from the surreal . 
city by the sea is the cinematic equivalent of defensive driving : it's careful , conscientious and makes no major mistakes . but what saves 

lives on the freeway does not necessarily make for persuasive viewing . 
the marquis de sade couldn't have been as dull a person as this film makes him out to be . 
what could have been a neat little story about believing in yourself is swamped by heavy-handed melodrama . 
the cast is uniformly excellent . . . but the film itself is merely mildly charming . 
drives for the same kind of bittersweet , conciliatory tone that three seasons achieved but loses its way in rhetorical excess and blatant 

sentimentality . 
a bigger holiday downer than your end-of-year 401 ( k ) statement . 
the whole thing plays out with the drowsy heaviness of synchronized swimmer wearing a wool wetsuit . 
fairly successful at faking some pretty cool stunts but a complete failure at trying to create some pretty cool characters . and forget about 

any attempt at a plot ! 
it will probably prove interesting to ram dass fans , but to others it may feel like a parody of the mellow , peace-and-love side of the '60s 

counterculture . 
take away all the cliches and the carbon copy scenes from every drug movie we've seen and all you have left are john leguizamo's cool jackets . 
it's so full of wrong choices that all you can do is shake your head in disbelief -- and worry about what classic oliver parker intends to 

mangle next time . 
showtime is closer to slowtime . 
it may be an easy swipe to take , but this barbershop just doesn't make the cut . 
the weight of water uses water as a metaphor for subconscious desire , but this leaky script barely stays afloat . 
'how many more voyages can this limping but dearly-loved franchise survive ? '
despite a blue-chip cast and a provocative title , writer-director peter mattei's first feature microwaves dull leftover romantic motifs basted 

in faux-contemporary gravy . 
fans of the tv series will be disappointed , and everyone else will be slightly bored . 
the only element of suspense is whether the movie will change titles or distributors again before the closing credits roll . 
barely goes beyond comic book status . 
it's disappointing when filmmakers throw a few big-name actors and cameos at a hokey script . 
i spy is an embarrassment , a monotonous , disjointed jumble of borrowed plot points and situations . it's as flat as an open can of pop left 

sitting in the sun . 
an eccentric little comic/thriller deeply in love with its own quirky personality . 
afraid to pitch into farce , yet only half-hearted in its spy mechanics , all the queen's men is finally just one long drag . 
painfully padded . 
maybe it's the star power of the cast or the redundant messages , but something aboul " full frontal " seems , well , contrived . 
[morgan] , judd and franklin can't save the script , rooted in a novel by joseph finder , from some opportunism . 
the movie is obviously a labour of love so howard appears to have had free rein to be as pretentious as he wanted . 
passably entertaining but also mechanical and joyless . 
safe conduct , however ambitious and well-intentioned , fails to hit the entertainment bull's-eye . 
my response to the film is best described as lukewarm . maybe i found the proceedings a little bit too conventional . 
too timid to bring a sense of closure to an ugly chapter of the twentieth century . 
it's push-the-limits teen comedy , the type written by people who can't come up with legitimate funny , and it's used so extensively that good 

bits are hopelessly overshadowed . 
it's too long , too repetitive , and takes way too many years to resolve to be a total winner . 
a sudsy cautionary tale . 
a movie that tries to fuse the two 'woods' but winds up a bolly-holly masala mess . 
mr . wedge and mr . saldanha handle the mix of verbal jokes and slapstick well . their film falters , however , in its adherence to the disney 

philosophy of required poignancy , a salute that i'd hoped the movie would avoid . 
leaves you with a knot in your stomach , its power is undercut by its own head-banging obviousness . 
watching it is rather like an overlong visit from a large group of your relatives . as your relatives swap one mundane story after another , 

you begin to wonder if they are ever going to depart . 
unfortunately , as a writer , mr . montias isn't nearly as good to his crew as he is as a director or actor . 
on the right track to something that's creepy and effective . . . it's just going to take more than a man in a bullwinkle costume to get there 

. 
the only thing that could possibly make them less interesting than they already are is for them to get full montied into a scrappy , jovial 

team . 
one of those movies where you walk out of the theater not feeling cheated exactly , but feeling pandered to , which , in the end , might be all 

the more infuriating . 
 . . . this movie has a glossy coat of action movie excess while remaining heartless at its core . 
murder by numbers is like a couple of mediocre tv-movie -of-the-week films clumsily stuck together . 
the film is surprisingly well-directed by brett ratner , who keeps things moving well -- at least until the problematic third act . 
warmed-over tarantino by way of wannabe elmore leonard . 
[sen's] soap opera-ish approach undermines his good intentions . 
showtime is one of the hapless victims of the arrogant " if we put together a wry white man and a chatty black man and give them guns , the 

movie will be funny " syndrome . 
sushi for the connoisseurs of the macabre . 
don't waste your money . 
though certainly original in form , altar boys requires a taste for swamp thing-type animation , doubled with a deafening score . 
there aren't many laughs in this interesting study of the cultural mores of georgian jews in tel aviv . 
there's not enough to sustain the comedy . 
like those to rome , all roads in the banger sisters inevitably lead to a joke about hawn's breasts , which constantly threaten to upstage the 

woman sporting them . 
we may get the full visceral impact of a ruthless army on the warpath but no sense of the devilish complexity of the balkans conflict . 
you're better off staying home and watching the x-files . 
chaotic , self-indulgent and remarkably ugly to look at , it's . . . like a series of pretentiously awful student films strung together into 

one feature-length horror . 
bears resemblance to , and shares the weaknesses of , too many recent action-fantasy extravaganzas in which special effects overpower cogent 

story-telling and visual clarity during the big action sequences . 
this is the type of movie best enjoyed by frat boys and college kids while sucking on the bong and downing one alcoholic beverage after another 

. 
friday after next has the same problem that next friday did -- it's called where's chris tucker when you need him ? 
this film is full of rabbits . brimful . but like most rabbits , it seems to lack substance . 
i weep for the future when a good portion of the respected critical community in this country consider blue crush to be an intelligent film 

about young women . 
i kept wishing i was watching a documentary about the wartime navajos and what they accomplished instead of all this specious hollywood hoo-ha 

. 
no number of fantastic sets , extras , costumes and spectacular locales can disguise the emptiness at the center of the story . 
a movie far more cynical and lazy than anything a fictitious charlie kaufman might object to . 
could the country bears really be as bad as its trailers ? in a word -- yes . 
if high crimes were any more generic it would have a universal product code instead of a title . 
reggio falls victim to relying on the very digital technology that he fervently scorns , creating a meandering , inarticulate and ultimately 

disappointing film . 
the movie makes absolutely no sense . its underlying mythology is a hodgepodge of inconsistencies that pose the question : since when did dumb 

entertainment have to be this dumb ? 
the problem with this film is that it's forced to make its characters idiots in order to advance the plot . had anyone here done anything 

remotely intelligent , we all could have stopped watching long ago . 
despite the authenticity of the trappings , the film is overblown in its plotting , hackneyed in its dialogue and anachronistic in its style . 
murder and mayhem of this sort quickly becomes monotonous . 
the journey toward redemption feels more like a cinematic experiment than a full-blown movie . 
that zhang would make such a strainingly cute film -- with a blind orphan at its center , no less -- indicates where his ambitions have 

wandered . 
the gantzes' interviews tend to let the guys off the hook . 
the streets , shot by cinematographer michael ballhaus , may be as authentic as they are mean , but it is nearly impossible to care about what 

happens on them . 
this is a good movie in spurts , but when it doesn't work , it's at important times . 
parker probably thinks he's shaking up a classic the way kenneth branagh and baz luhrmann have , but this half-hearted messing-about just makes 

us miss wilde's still-contemporary play . 
flotsam in the sea of moviemaking , not big enough for us to worry about it causing significant harm and not smelly enough to bother despising 

. 
a tv episode inflated past its natural length . 
involving at times , but lapses quite casually into the absurd . 
all these developments and challenges facing santa weigh down the plot so heavily that they drain all the film of its energy and needlessly 

strain credibility . 
anemic , pretentious . 
there are weird resonances between actor and role here , and they're not exactly flattering . 
the unceasing sadism is so graphically excessive , the director just ends up exposing his own obsession . 
the story . . . is moldy and obvious . 
it's drained of life in an attempt to be sober and educational , and yet it's so devoid of realism that its lack of whistles and bells just 

makes it obnoxious and stiff . 
suffocated at conception by its munchausen-by-proxy mum . punish the vehicle to adore the star . 
even if britney spears is really cute , her movie is really bad . 
big fat liar is just futile silliness looking to tap into the kiddie sensibilities . 
usually when i get this much syrup , i like pancakes to go with it . 
all the necessary exposition prevents the picture from rising above your generic sand 'n' sandal adventure . 
glib , satirical documentary that fudges facts , makes facile points and engages in the cinematic equivalent of tabloid journalism . 
gangs of new york is an unapologetic mess , whose only saving grace is that it ends by blowing just about everything up . 
an overblown clunker full of bad jokes , howling cliches and by-the-numbers action sequences . 
without a strong script and energetic acting , dogma films can produce the same sleep-inducing effects as watching your neighbor's home videos 

. 
a mild , reluctant , thumbs down . 
strong setup and ambitious goals fade as the film descends into unsophisticated scare tactics and b-film thuggery . 
schindler's list it ain't . 
a cinematic sleeping pill of impressive potency . 
it's an awfully derivative story . 
the movie barely makes sense , with its unbelievable na?vetÈ and arbitrary flashbacks . 
it's an earnest debut full of heartfelt performances , but is ultimately let down by a story that is all too predictable . 
about as cutting-edge as pet rock : the movie . 
with generic sets and b-grade special effects , jason is about as convincing on the sci-fi front as tv's defunct cleopatra 2525 . 
not sweet enough to liven up its predictable story and will leave even fans of hip-hop sorely disappointed . 
winds up feeling like lots of other quirky movies that try to score hipness points with young adults . 
oft-described as the antidote to american pie-type sex comedies , it actually has a bundle in common with them , as the film diffuses every 

opportunity for a breakthrough
the pacing is glacial , the screenplay is stiff as a board , and things heat up only in the movie's final scenes . 
the premise is overshadowed by the uberviolence of the clericks as this becomes just another kung-fu sci-fi movie with silly action sequences . 
with its hints of a greater intelligence lurking somewhere , the ring makes its stupidity more than obvious . it's painful . 
pumpkin struts about with " courage " pinned to its huckster lapel while a yellow streak a mile wide decorates its back . 
an uneven film dealing with too many problems to be taken seriously . 
sheridan . . . smoothes over sources of conflict that could have lent the film a bit more depth . 
an atonal estrogen opera that demonizes feminism while gifting the most sympathetic male of the piece with a nice vomit bath at his wedding . 
half of it is composed of snappy patter and pseudo-sophisticated cultural observations , while the remainder . . . would be more at home on a 

daytime television serial . 
writer/director john mckay ignites some charming chemistry between kate and jed but , when he veers into sodden melodrama , punctuated by 

violins , it's disastrous and kate's jealous female friends become downright despicable . 
[newton]wanders through charlie completely unaware she needs to show some presence and star quality . 
unfortunately , the picture failed to capture me . i found it slow , drab , and bordering on melodramatic . 
a lousy movie that's not merely unwatchable , but also unlistenable . 
the best way to hope for any chance of enjoying this film is by lowering your expectations . then lower them a bit more . 
when not obscured by the booming bass-heavy soundtrack , the conversation presents the kind of linguistic fumbling not heard since macy gray's 

game of chinese whispers with mr bean . 
cliches are as thick as the cigarette smoke . 
a woozy , roisterous , exhausting mess , and the off-beat casting of its two leads turns out to be as ill-starred as you might expect . 
'abandon all hope , ye who enter here' . . . you should definitely let dante's gloomy words be your guide . 
what begins as a seemingly brainless , bubbly romantic comedy becomes a cliche-drenched melodrama by mid-film and , by film's end , a feminist 

action fantasy . 
a grim , flat and boring werewolf movie that refuses to develop an energy level . 
birot's directorial debut ( she co-wrote the script with christophe honorÈ ) isn't so much bad as it is bland . 
watching the film is like reading a times portrait of grief that keeps shifting focus to the journalist who wrote it . 
enough similarities to gymkata and howie long's firestorm that my fingernails instinctively crawled towards my long-suffering eyeballs . 
succeeds in providing a disquiet world the long-dreaded completion of the police academy series . 
christians sensitive to a reductionist view of their lord as a luv-spreading dr . feelgood or omnipotent slacker will feel vastly more 

affronted than secularists , who might even praise god for delivering such an instant camp classic . 
if this dud had been made in the '70s , it would have been called the hills have antlers and played for about three weeks in drive-ins . 
a frantic search for laughs , with a hit-to-miss ratio that doesn't exactly favour the audience . 
like a documentary version of fight club , shorn of social insight , intellectual pretension and cinematic interest . 
 " an entire film about researchers quietly reading dusty old letters . " 
pryor lite , with half the demons , half the daring , much less talent , many fewer laughs . 
what's at stake in this film is nothing more than an obsolete , if irritating , notion of class . 
the stories here suffer from the chosen format . 
while the mystery surrounding the nature of the boat's malediction remains intriguing enough to sustain mild interest , the picture refuses to 

offer much accompanying sustenance in the way of characterization , humor or plain old popcorn fun . 
just how extreme are these ops ? i regret to report that these ops are just not extreme enough . 
the actors are forced to grapple with hazy motivations that never come into focus . 
john leguizamo may be a dramatic actor -- just not in this movie . 
the sequel has turned completely and irrevocably bizarre to the point of utter nonsense . 
hardly makes the kind of points egoyan wanted to make , nor does it exist as the kind of monument he wanted to build , to victims whose voices 

have never gained the ears of the world . 
build some robots , haul 'em to the theatre with you for the late show , and put on your own mystery science theatre 3000 tribute to what is 

almost certainly going to go down as the worst -- and only -- killer website movie of this or any other year . 
rainy days and movies about the disintegration of families always get me down . 
 . . . has about 3/4th the fun of its spry 2001 predecessor ó but it's a rushed , slapdash , sequel-for-the-sake- of-a-sequel with less than 

half the plot and ingenuity . 
a incompetÍncia de marcus adams como roteirista sÛ È superada por sua pÈssima dire??o . 
the master of disaster - it's a piece of dreck disguised as comedy . 
this isn't a movie ; it's a symptom . 
the film has a few cute ideas and several modest chuckles but it isn't exactly kiddie-friendlyÖ alas , santa is more ho-hum than ho-ho-ho and 

the snowman ( who never gets to play that flute ) has all the charm of a meltdown . 
the stupidest , most insulting movie of 2002's first quarter . 
it's so underwritten that you can't figure out just where the other characters , including ana's father and grandfather , come down on the 

issue of ana's future . 
a film so tedious that it is impossible to care whether that boast is true or not . 
none of this violates the letter of behan's book , but missing is its spirit , its ribald , full-throated humor . 
bad company leaves a bad taste , not only because of its bad-luck timing , but also the staleness of its script . 
even if it ultimately disappoints , the picture does have about a matinee admission's worth of funny to keep it afloat . 
fails to bring as much to the table . 
a film made with as little wit , interest , and professionalism as artistically possible for a slummy hollywood caper flick . 
disturbingly superficial in its approach to the material . 
if you're not the target demographic . . . this movie is one long chick-flick slog . 
i hate this movie
it's tough to tell which is in more abundant supply in this woefully hackneyed movie , directed by scott kalvert , about street gangs and turf 

wars in 1958 brooklyn -- stale cliches , gratuitous violence , or empty machismo . 
gooding and coburn are both oscar winners , a fact which , as you watch them clumsily mugging their way through snow dogs , seems inconceivable 

. 
at every opportunity to do something clever , the film goes right over the edge and kills every sense of believability . . . all you have left 

is a no-surprise series of explosions and violence while banderas looks like he's not trying to laugh at how bad it
 . . . pitiful , slapdash disaster . a doa dud from frame one . 
jaw-droppingly superficial , straining to get by on humor that is not even as daring as john ritter's glory days on three's company . 
there are plenty of scenes in frida that do work , but rarely do they involve the title character herself . 
although god is great addresses interesting matters of identity and heritage , it's hard to shake the feeling that it was intended to be a 

different kind of film . 
the dark and bittersweet twist feels strange as things turn nasty and tragic during the final third of the film . first-timer john mckay is 

never able to pull it back on course . 
distances you by throwing out so many red herrings , so many false scares , that the genuine ones barely register . 
godard uses his characters -- if that's not too glorified a term -- as art things , mouthpieces , visual motifs , blanks . 
the movie generates plot points with a degree of randomness usually achieved only by lottery drawing . 
a predictable , manipulative stinker . the story passes time until it's time for an absurd finale of twisted metal , fireballs and revenge . 
eastwood winces , clutches his chest and gasps for breath . it's a spectacular performance - ahem , we hope it's only acting . 
the movie suffers from two fatal ailments -- a dearth of vitality and a story that's shapeless and uninflected . 
it's just weirdness for the sake of weirdness , and where human nature should be ingratiating , it's just grating . 
an ambitiously naturalistic , albeit half-baked , drama about an abused , inner-city autistic teen . 
once she lets her love depraved leads meet , [denis'] story becomes a hopeless , unsatisfying muddle
the dose is strong and funny , for the first 15 minutes anyway ; after that , the potency wanes dramatically . 
the people in abc africa are treated as docile , mostly wordless ethnographic extras . 
what's really sad is to see two academy award winning actresses ( and one academy award winning actor ) succumb to appearing in this junk 

that's tv sitcom material at best . 
no doubt the star and everyone else involved had their hearts in the right place . where their heads were is anyone's guess . 
call me a cynic , but there's something awfully deadly about any movie with a life-affirming message . 
a gratingly unfunny groaner littered with zero-dimensional , unlikable characters and hackneyed , threadbare comic setups . 
got some good , organic character work , lots of obvious political insights and little room for engaging , imaginative filmmaking in its nearly 

2 1/2-hour , dissipated length . 
a painfully slow cliche-ridden film filled with more holes than clyde barrow's car . 
like leafing through an album of photos accompanied by the sketchiest of captions . 
i guess it just goes to show that if you give a filmmaker an unlimited amount of phony blood , nothing good can happen . 
gaghan captures the half-lit , sometimes creepy intimacy of college dorm rooms , a subtlety that makes the silly , over-the-top coda especially 

disappointing . 
feels less like a change in [herzog's] personal policy than a half-hearted fluke . 
one of the most unpleasant things the studio has ever produced . 
will anyone who isn't a fangoria subscriber be excited that it hasn't gone straight to video ? 
a selection of scenes in search of a movie . 
[janey] forgets about her other obligations , leading to a tragedy which is somehow guessable from the first few minutes , maybe because it 

echoes the by now intolerable morbidity of so many recent movies . 
will undoubtedly play well in european markets , where mr . besson is a brand name , and in asia , where ms . shu is an institution , but 

american audiences will probably find it familiar and insufficiently cathartic . 
true to its animatronic roots : . . . as stiff , ponderous and charmless as a mechanical apparatus . . . 'the country bears' should never have 

been brought out of hibernation . 
[evans is] a fascinating character , and deserves a better vehicle than this facetious smirk of a movie . 
the script's judgment and sense of weight is way , way off . 
you come away wishing , though , that the movie spent a lot less time trying to make a credible case for reports from the afterlife and a lot 

more time on the romantic urgency that's at the center of the story . 
evelyn may be based on a true and historically significant story , but the filmmakers have made every effort to disguise it as an unimaginative 

screenwriter's invention . 
a derivative collection of horror and sci-fi cliches . 
loosely speaking , we're in all of me territory again , and , strictly speaking , schneider is no steve martin . 
as aimless as an old pickup skidding completely out of control on a long patch of black ice , the movie makes two hours feel like four . 
limps along on a squirm-inducing fish-out-of-water formula that goes nowhere and goes there very , very slowly . 
just the sort of lazy tearjerker that gives movies about ordinary folk a bad name . 
the redeeming feature of chan's films has always been the action , but the stunts in the tuxedo seem tired and , what's worse , routine . 
while the importance of being earnest offers opportunities for occasional smiles and chuckles , it doesn't give us a reason to be in the 

theater beyond wilde's wit and the actors' performances . 
has all the scenic appeal of a cesspool . 
a rambling ensemble piece with loosely connected characters and plots that never quite gel . 
a lifetime movie about men . 
the balkans provide the obstacle course for the love of a good woman . 
it's hard to say who might enjoy this , are there tolstoy groupies out there ? it's dark and tragic , and lets the business of the greedy 

talent agents get in the way of saying something meaningful about facing death
this is a movie that starts out like heathers , then becomes bring it on , then becomes unwatchable . 
the screenplay flounders under the weight of too many story lines . 
i think it was plato who said , 'i think , therefore i know better than to rush to the theatre for this one . '
if damon and affleck attempt another project greenlight , next time out they might try paying less attention to the miniseries and more 

attention to the film it is about . 
this is rote drivel aimed at mom and dad's wallet . 
contrived , maudlin and cliche-ridden . . . if this sappy script was the best the contest received , those rejected must have been 

astronomically bad . 
i hate the feeling of having been slimed in the name of high art . 
this is more a case of 'sacre bleu ! ' than 'magnifique' . 
the kids in the audience at the preview screening seemed bored , cheering the pratfalls but little else ; their parents , wise folks that they 

are , read books . 
whether jason x is this bad on purpose is never clear . but one thing's for sure : it never comes close to being either funny or scary . 
yet another weepy southern bore-athon . 
i like all four of the lead actors a lot and they manage to squeeze a few laughs out of the material , but they're treading water at best in 

this forgettable effort . 
perhaps the most annoying thing about who is cletis tout ? is that it's a crime movie made by someone who obviously knows nothing about crime . 
except as an acting exercise or an exceptionally dark joke , you wonder what anyone saw in this film that allowed it to get made . 
this insufferable movie is meant to make you think about existential suffering . instead , it'll only put you to sleep . 
who is this movie for ? not kids , who don't need the lesson in repugnance . it's also not smart or barbed enough for older viewers -- not 

everyone thinks poo-poo jokes are 'edgy . '
a sleep-inducingly slow-paced crime drama with clumsy dialogue , heavy-handed phoney-feeling sentiment , and an overly-familiar set of plot 

devices . 
it's so tedious that it makes you forgive every fake , dishonest , entertaining and , ultimately , more perceptive moment in bridget jones's 

diary . 
almost as offensive as " freddy got fingered . " 
the gifted crudup has the perfect face to play a handsome blank yearning to find himself , and his cipherlike personality and bad behavior 

would play fine if the movie knew what to do with him . 
it is depressing , ruthlessly pained and depraved , the movie equivalent of staring into an open wound . 
ponderous , plodding soap opera disguised as a feature film . 
cold , pretentious , thoroughly dislikable study in sociopathy . 
for the future , one hopes mr . plympton will find room for one more member of his little band , a professional screenwriter . 
a cheap scam put together by some cynical creeps at revolution studios and imagine entertainment to make the suckers out there surrender $9 and 

93 minutes of unrecoverable life . 
reign of fire never comes close to recovering from its demented premise , but it does sustain an enjoyable level of ridiculousness . 
human nature is a goofball movie , in the way that malkovich was , but it tries too hard . 
originality is sorely lacking . 
the plot's clearly mythic structure may owe more to disney's strong sense of formula than to the original story . but while the highly 

predictable narrative falls short , treasure planet is truly gorgeous to behold . 
though there are entertaining and audacious moments , the movie's wildly careening tone and an extremely flat lead performance do little to 

salvage this filmmaker's flailing reputation . 
ram dass fierce grace moulds itself as an example to up-and-coming documentarians , of the overlooked pitfalls of such an endeavour . 
lucky break is perfectly inoffensive and harmless , but it's also drab and inert . 
for a story set at sea , ghost ship is pretty landbound , with its leaden acting , dull exposition and telegraphed 'surprises . '
there might be some sort of credible gender-provoking philosophy submerged here , but who the hell cares ? 
what we have is a character faced with the possibility that her life is meaningless , vapid and devoid of substance , in a movie that is 

definitely meaningless , vapid and devoid of substance . 
nothing more than a stifling morality tale dressed up in peekaboo clothing . 
i like my christmas movies with more elves and snow and less pimps and ho's . 
it all seemed wasted like deniro's once promising career and the once grand long beach boardwalk . 
[i]t's certainly laudable that the movie deals with hot-button issues in a comedic context , but barbershop isn't as funny as it should be . 
unfortunately , a cast of competent performers from movies , television and the theater are cast adrift in various new york city locations with 

no unifying rhythm or visual style . 
just entertaining enough not to hate , too mediocre to love . 
'sophisticated' viewers who refuse to admit that they don't like it will likely call it 'challenging' to their fellow sophisticates . 
equilibrium the movie , as opposed to the manifesto , is really , really stupid . 
excruciatingly unfunny and pitifully unromantic . 
the film's thoroughly recycled plot and tiresome jokes . . . drag the movie down . 
it doesn't offer audiences any way of gripping what its point is , or even its attitude toward its subject . 
this kiddie-oriented stinker is so bad that i even caught the gum stuck under my seat trying to sneak out of the theater
though impostor deviously adopts the guise of a modern motion picture , it too is a bomb . 
cox offers plenty of glimpses at existing photos , but there are no movies of nijinsky , so instead the director treats us to an aimless 

hodgepodge . 
every note rings false . 
when the screenwriter responsible for one of the worst movies of one year directs an equally miserable film the following year , you'd have a 

hard time believing it was just coincidence . 
it never rises to its clever what-if concept . 
admirably ambitious but self-indulgent . 
this story of unrequited love doesn't sustain interest beyond the first half-hour . 
this angst-ridden territory was covered earlier and much better in ordinary people . 
the entire film is one big excuse to play one lewd scene after another . about half of them are funny , a few are sexy and none are useful in 

telling the story , which is paper-thin and decidedly unoriginal . 
a big , loud , bang-the-drum bore . 
grating and tedious . 
[less a movie than] an appalling , odoriferous thing . . . so rotten in almost every single facet of production that you'll want to crawl up 

your own * * * in embarrassment . 
the concept behind kung pow : enter the fist is hilarious . it's too bad nothing else is . 
hardman is a grating , mannered onscreen presence , which is especially unfortunate in light of the fine work done by most of the rest of her 

cast . 
el crimen del padre amaro would likely be most effective if used as a tool to rally anti-catholic protestors . 
interesting and thoroughly unfaithful version of carmen
a serious movie with serious ideas . but seriously , folks , it doesn't work . 
there's nothing exactly wrong here , but there's not nearly enough that's right . 
the action here is unusually tame , the characters are too simplistic to maintain interest , and the plot offers few surprises . 
i couldn't help but feel the wasted potential of this slapstick comedy . 
what madonna does here can't properly be called acting -- more accurately , it's moving and it's talking and it's occasionally gesturing , 

sometimes all at once . 
[a] painfully flat gross-out comedy . . . 
even if you're an elvis person , you won't find anything to get excited about on this dvd . 
the movie certainly has its share of clever moments and biting dialogue , but there's just not much lurking below its abstract surface . 
it's bedeviled by labored writing and slack direction . 
i'm sure there's a teenage boy out there somewhere who's dying for this kind of entertainment . 
the tuxedo miscalculates badly by forcing the star to play second fiddle to the dull effects that allow the suit to come to life . 
the film is a confusing melange of tones and styles , one moment a romantic trifle and the next a turgid drama . 
obviously , a lot of people wasted a lot of their time ( including mine ) on something very inconsequential . 
there's a little violence and lots of sex in a bid to hold our attention , but it grows monotonous after a while , as do joan and philip's 

repetitive arguments , schemes and treachery . 
it drowns in sap . 
deliberately and devotedly constructed , far from heaven is too picture postcard perfect , too neat and new pin-like , too obviously a 

recreation to resonate . 
it's rare that a movie can be as intelligent as this one is in every regard except its storyline ; everything that's good is ultimately 

scuttled by a plot that's just too boring and obvious . 
i'm giving it thumbs down due to the endlessly repetitive scenes of embarrassment . there's got to be a more graceful way of portraying the 

devastation of this disease . 
the good thing -- the only good thing -- about extreme ops is that it's so inane that it gave me plenty of time to ponder my thanksgiving to-do 

list . 
the modern-day characters are nowhere near as vivid as the 19th-century ones . 
blessed with a searing lead performance by ryan gosling ( murder by numbers ) , the movie is powerful and provocative . it's also built on a 

faulty premise , one it follows into melodrama and silliness . 
uneven performances and a spotty script add up to a biting satire that has no teeth . 
director jay russell stomps in hobnail boots over natalie babbitt's gentle , endearing 1975 children's novel . 
benigni's pinocchio is extremely straight and mind-numbingly stilted , its episodic pacing keeping the film from developing any storytelling 

flow . 
the troubling thing about clockstoppers is that it doesn't make any sense . 
with its paint fights , motorized scooter chases and dewy-eyed sentiment , it's a pretty listless collection of kid-movie clichÈs . 
mostly the film is just hectic and homiletic : two parts exhausting men in black mayhem to one part family values . 
kicks off with an inauspicious premise , mopes through a dreary tract of virtually plotless meanderings and then ends with a whimper . 
a rote exercise in both animation and storytelling . 
the material and the production itself are little more than routine . 
the movie's major and most devastating flaw is its reliance on formula , though , and it's quite enough to lessen the overall impact the movie 

could have had . 
not even steven spielberg has dreamed up such blatant and sickening product placement in a movie . 
it's all surface psychodramatics . 
the mothman prophecies , which is mostly a bore , seems to exist only for its climactic setpiece . 
that frenetic spectacle [on the tv show] has usually been leavened by a charm that's conspicuously missing from the girls' big-screen blowout . 
kitschy , flashy , overlong soap opera . 
for all the time we spend with these people , we never really get inside of them . 
yet another arnold vehicle that fails to make adequate use of his particular talents . 
sandra bullock , despite downplaying her good looks , carries a little too much ain't- she-cute baggage into her lead role as a troubled and 

determined homicide cop to quite pull off the heavy stuff . 
an undistinguished attempt to make a classic theater piece cinematic . 
too many scenarios in which the hero might have an opportunity to triumphantly sermonize , and too few that allow us to wonder for ourselves if 

things will turn out okay . 
there is simply not enough of interest onscreen to sustain its seventy-minute running time . 
a wordy wisp of a comedy . 
broomfield's style of journalism is hardly journalism at all , and even those with an avid interest in the subject will grow impatient . 
[seagal's] strenuous attempt at a change in expression could very well clinch him this year's razzie . 
has the disjointed feel of a bunch of strung-together tv episodes . 
a series of escapades demonstrating the adage that what is good for the goose is also good for the gander , some of which occasionally amuses 

but none of which amounts to much of a story . 
ozpetek offers an aids subtext , skims over the realities of gay sex , and presents yet another tired old vision of the gay community as an 

all-inclusive world where uptight , middle class bores like antonia can feel good about themselves . 
a dopey movie clothed in excess layers of hipness . 
the sweetest thing is expressly for idiots who don't care what kind of sewage they shovel into their mental gullets to simulate sustenance . 
sinks so low in a poorly played game of absurd plot twists , idiotic court maneuvers and stupid characters that even freeman can't save it . 
i realized that no matter how fantastic reign of fire looked , its story was making no sense at all . 
it made me realize that we really haven't had a good cheesy b-movie playing in theaters since . . . well . . . since last week's reign of fire 

. 
some movies were made for the big screen , some for the small screen , and some , like ballistic : ecks vs . sever , were made for the palm 

screen . 
sc2 is an autopilot hollywood concoction lacking in imagination and authentic christmas spirit , yet it's geared toward an audience full of 

masters of both . 
after all the big build-up , the payoff for the audience , as well as the characters , is messy , murky , unsatisfying . 
seems content to dog-paddle in the mediocre end of the pool , and it's a sad , sick sight . 
it's refreshing that someone understands the need for the bad boy ; diesel , with his brawny frame and cool , composed delivery , fits the bill 

perfectly . 
if all of eight legged freaks was as entertaining as the final hour , i would have no problem giving it an unqualified recommendation . 
suffers from a flat script and a low budget . 
there are deeply religious and spiritual people in this world who would argue that entering a church , synagogue or temple doesn't mean you 

have to check your brain at the door . the same should go for movie theaters . 
seemingly a vehicle to showcase the canadian's inane ramblings , stealing harvard is a smorgasbord of soliloquies about nothing delivered by 

the former mr . drew barrymore . 
the film tries to touch on spousal abuse but veers off course and becomes just another revenge film . 
as it stands it's an opera movie for the buffs . 
la cinta comienza intentando ser un drama , r·pidamente se transforma en una comedia y termina por ser una parodia absolutamente predecible
this franchise has not spawned a single good film . the crap continues . 
if only it were , well , funnier . 
its inescapable absurdities are tantamount to insulting the intelligence of anyone who hasn't been living under a rock ( since sept . 11 ) . 
high drama , disney-style - a wing and a prayer and a hunky has-been pursuing his castle in the sky . 
like its script , which nurses plot holes gaping enough to pilot an entire olympic swim team through , the characters in swimfan seem motivated 

by nothing short of dull , brain-deadening hangover . 
one big blustery movie where nothing really happens . when it comes out on video , then it's the perfect cure for insomnia . 
like a comedian who starts off promisingly but then proceeds to flop , comedian runs out of steam after a half hour . 
the pairing does sound promising in theory . . . but their lack of chemistry makes eddie murphy and robert deniro in showtime look like old , 

familiar vaudeville partners . 
director chris eyre is going through the paces again with his usual high melodramatic style of filmmaking . 
as it stands , there's some fine sex onscreen , and some tense arguing , but not a whole lot more . 
i could just feel the screenwriter at every moment 'tap , tap , tap , tap , tapping away' on this screenplay . 
the picture doesn't know it's a comedy . 
a stupid , derivative horror film that substitutes extreme gore for suspense . 
the rollerball sequences feel sanitised and stagey . 
roman polanski directs the pianist like a surgeon mends a broken heart ; very meticulously but without any passion . 
nothing more than a run-of-the-mill action flick . 
lan yu is certainly a serviceable melodrama , but it doesn't even try for the greatness that happy together shoots for ( and misses ) . 
this is an action movie with an action icon who's been all but decommissioned . 
even if it is generally amusing from time to time , i spy has all the same problems the majority of action comedies have . 
much like robin williams , death to smoochy has already reached its expiration date . 
an annoying orgy of excess and exploitation that has no point and goes nowhere . 
a tired , unnecessary retread . . . a stale copy of a picture that wasn't all that great to begin with . 
an often unfunny romp . 
a worthy idea , but the uninspired scripts , acting and direction never rise above the level of an after-school tv special . 
twenty years later , reggio still knows how to make a point with poetic imagery , but his ability to startle has been stifled by the very 

prevalence of the fast-forward technology that he so stringently takes to task . 
it bites hard . 
ear-splitting exercise in formula crash-and-bash action . 
we have an actor who is great fun to watch performing in a film that is only mildly diverting . 
despite hoffman's best efforts , wilson remains a silent , lumpish cipher ; his encounters reveal nothing about who he is or who he was before 

. 
there's a thin line between likably old-fashioned and fuddy-duddy , and the count of monte cristo . . . never quite settles on either side . 
the emotional overload of female angst irreparably drags the film down . 
schaefer's . . . determination to inject farcical raunch . . . drowns out the promise of the romantic angle . 
like showgirls and glitter , the most entertaining moments here are unintentional . 
while some of the camera work is interesting , the film's mid-to-low budget is betrayed by the surprisingly shoddy makeup work . 
the origin story is well told , and the characters will not disappoint anyone who values the original comic books . it's in the action scenes 

that things fall apart . 
impostor is a step down for director gary fleder . 
seagal , who looks more like danny aiello these days , mumbles his way through the movie . 
the movie is a negligible work of manipulation , an exploitation piece doing its usual worst to guilt-trip parents . 
lacks dramatic punch and depth . 
there are moments of real pleasure to be found in sara sugarman's whimsical comedy very annie-mary but not enough to sustain the film . 
i can analyze this movie in three words : thumbs friggin' down . 
sadly , 'garth' hasn't progressed as nicely as 'wayne . '
make like the title and dodge this one . 
this is not one of the movies you'd want to watch if you only had a week to live . 
the first hour is tedious though ford and neeson capably hold our interest , but its just not a thrilling movie . 
here's a case of two actors who do everything humanly possible to create characters who are sweet and believable , and are defeated by a 

screenplay that forces them into bizarre , implausible behavior . 
it's obvious [je-gyu is] trying for poetry ; what he gets instead has all the lyricism of a limerick scrawled in a public restroom . 
sweet home alabama is one dumb movie , but its stupidity is so relentlessly harmless that it almost wins you over in the end . 
[green is] the comedy equivalent of saddam hussein , and i'm just about ready to go to the u . n . and ask permission for a preemptive strike . 
no amount of good acting is enough to save oleander's uninspired story . 
a vile , incoherent mess . . . a scummy ripoff of david cronenberg's brilliant 'videodrome . '
murphy and wilson actually make a pretty good team . . . but the project surrounding them is distressingly rote . 
despite its raucous intent , xxx is as conventional as a nike ad and as rebellious as spring break . 
think the lion king redone for horses , with fewer deliberate laughs , more inadvertent ones and stunningly trite songs by bryan adams , the 

world's most generic rock star . 
it is one more celluloid testimonial to the cruelties experienced by southern blacks as distilled through a caucasian perspective . 
it's tough being a black man in america , especially when the man has taken away your car , your work-hours and denied you health insurance . 
a small fortune in salaries and stunt cars might have been saved if the director , tom dey , had spliced together bits and pieces of midnight 

run and 48 hours ( and , for that matter , shrek ) . 
an amateurish , quasi-improvised acting exercise shot on ugly digital video . 
the holes in this film remain agape -- holes punched through by an inconsistent , meandering , and sometimes dry plot . 
would benigni's italian pinocchio have been any easier to sit through than this hastily dubbed disaster ? 
unofficially , national lampoon's van wilder is son of animal house . officially , it is twice as bestial but half as funny . 
this is a fragmented film , once a good idea that was followed by the bad idea to turn it into a movie . 
mindless yet impressively lean spinoff of last summer's bloated effects fest the mummy returns . 
halfway through the movie , the humor dwindles . it's replaced by some dramatic scenes that are jarring and deeply out of place in what could 

have ( and probably should have ) been a lighthearted comedy . 
will be far more interesting to the soderbergh faithful than it will be to the casual moviegoer who might be lured in by julia roberts . . . 
authentic , and at times endearing , humorous , spooky , educational , but at other times as bland as a block of snow . 
[a] mess . 
control-alt-delete simone as quickly as possible
follows the original film virtually scene for scene and yet manages to bleed it almost completely dry of humor , verve and fun . 
the filmmaker ascends , literally , to the olympus of the art world , but he would have done well to end this flawed , dazzling series with the 

raising of something other than his own cremaster . 
the screenplay comes across , rather unintentionally , as hip-hop scooby-doo . 
has lost some of the dramatic conviction that underlies the best of comedies . . . 
vaguely interesting , but it's just too too much . 
 . . . no charm , no laughs , no fun , no reason to watch . 
a generic family comedy unlikely to be appreciated by anyone outside the under-10 set . 
kung pow seems like some futile concoction that was developed hastily after oedekerk and his fellow moviemakers got through crashing a college 

keg party . 
kurys seems intimidated by both her subject matter and the period trappings of this debut venture into the heritage business . 
the film virtually chokes on its own self-consciousness . 
a manipulative feminist empowerment tale thinly posing as a serious drama about spousal abuse . 
everything in maid in manhattan is exceedingly pleasant , designed not to offend . it goes down easy , leaving virtually no aftertaste . 
a profoundly stupid affair , populating its hackneyed and meanspirited storyline with cardboard characters and performers who value cash above 

credibility . 
 . . . pays tribute to heroes the way julia roberts hands out awards--with phony humility barely camouflaging grotesque narcissism . 
time stands still in more ways that one in clockstoppers , a sci-fi thriller as lazy as it is interminable . 
as a director , eastwood is off his game -- there's no real sense of suspense , and none of the plot 'surprises' are really surprising . 
eccentric enough to stave off doldrums , caruso's self-conscious debut is also eminently forgettable . 
to work , love stories require the full emotional involvement and support of a viewer . that is made almost impossible by events that set the 

plot in motion . 
although barbershop boasts some of today's hottest and hippest acts from the world of television , music and stand-up comedy , this movie 

strangely enough has the outdated swagger of a shameless ë70s blaxploitation shuck-and-jive sitcom . 
a puzzle whose pieces do not fit . some are fascinating and others are not , and in the end , it is almost a good movie . 
would that greengrass had gone a tad less for grit and a lot more for intelligibility . 
the good is very , very good . . . the rest runs from mildly unimpressive to despairingly awful . 
'butterfingered' is the word for the big-fisted direction of jez butterworth , who manages to blast even the smallest sensitivities from the 

romance with his clamorous approach . 
be forewarned , if you're depressed about anything before watching this film , you may just end up trying to drown yourself in a lake 

afterwards . 
a terrible adaptation of a play that only ever walked the delicate tightrope between farcical and loathsome . in the wrong hands , i . e . 

peploe's , it's simply unbearable
an inexperienced director , mehta has much to learn . 
a limp eddie murphy vehicle that even he seems embarrassed to be part of . 
dramatically lackluster . 
so muddled , repetitive and ragged that it says far less about the horrifying historical reality than about the filmmaker's characteristic 

style . 
a gushy episode of " m * a * s * h " only this time from an asian perspective . 
 " looking for leonard " just seems to kinda sit in neutral , hoping for a stiff wind to blow it uphill or something . 
nothing more than four or five mild chuckles surrounded by 86 minutes of overly-familiar and poorly-constructed comedy . 
definitely in the guilty pleasure b-movie category , reign of fire is so incredibly inane that it is laughingly enjoyable . 
good-looking but relentlessly lowbrow outing plays like clueless does south fork . 
entertaining enough , but nothing new
 . . . one resurrection too many . 
this is a film about the irksome , tiresome nature of complacency that remains utterly satisfied to remain the same throughout . even as the 

hero of the story rediscovers his passion in life , the mood remains oddly detached . 
demeo is not without talent ; he just needs better material . 
in spite of featuring a script credited to no fewer than five writers , apparently nobody here bothered to check it twice . 
no one involved , save dash , shows the slightest aptitude for acting , and the script , credited to director abdul malik abbott and ernest 

'tron' anderson , seems entirely improvised . 
initially gripping , eventually cloying pow drama . 
a timid , soggy near miss . 
works better in the conception than it does in the execution . . . winds up seeming just a little too clever . 
to the vast majority of more casual filmgoers , it will probably be a talky bore . 
observant intelligence constantly vies with pretension -- and sometimes plain wacky implausibility -- throughout maelstrom . 
this version of h . g . wells' time machine was directed by h . g . wells' great-grandson . they should have found orson welles' great-grandson 

. 
shunji iwai's all about lily chou chou is a beautifully shot , but ultimately flawed film about growing up in japan . 
with more character development this might have been an eerie thriller ; with better payoffs , it could have been a thinking man's monster 

movie . 
thriller directorial debut for traffic scribe gaghan has all the right parts , but the pieces don't quite fit together . 
 . . . would be a total loss if not for two supporting performances taking place at the movie's edges . 
there's not a single jump-in-your-seat moment and believe it or not , jason actually takes a backseat in his own film to special effects . 
goldbacher draws on an elegant visual sense and a talent for easy , seductive pacing . . . but she and writing partner laurence coriat don't 

manage an equally assured narrative coinage . 
though harris is affecting at times , he cannot overcome the sense that pumpkin is a mere plot pawn for two directors with far less endearing 

disabilities . 
the documentary is much too conventional -- lots of boring talking heads , etc . -- to do the subject matter justice . 
the movie itself appears to be running on hypertime in reverse as the truly funny bits get further and further apart . 
this is not a jackie chan movie . it's just a movie that happens to have jackie chan in it . and that makes all the difference . 
far too clever by half , howard's film is really a series of strung-together moments , with all the spaces in between filled with fantasies , 

daydreams , memories and one fantastic visual trope after another . 
the problem with movies about angels is they have a tendency to slip into hokum . a rumor of angels doesn't just slip -- it avalanches into 

forced fuzziness . 
no big whoop , nothing new to see , zero thrills , too many flashbacks and a choppy ending make for a bad film . 
i don't think this movie loves women at all . 
shankman . . . and screenwriter karen janszen bungle their way through the narrative as if it were a series of bible parables and not an actual 

story . 
a negligible british comedy . 
fails to convince the audience that these brats will ever be anything more than losers . 
stay away . far away . 
slack and uninspired , and peopled mainly by characters so unsympathetic that you're left with a sour taste in your mouth . 
skip this turd and pick your nose instead because you're sure to get more out of the latter experience . 
what can one say about a balding 50-year-old actor playing an innocent boy carved from a log ? 
trailer trash cinema so uncool the only thing missing is the " gadzooks ! " 
her film is like a beautiful food entrÈe that isn't heated properly , so that it ends up a bit cold and relatively flavorless . 
like the world of his film , hartley created a monster but didn't know how to handle it . 
no new plot conceptions or environmental changes , just different bodies for sharp objects to rip through . 
needs more impressionistic cinematography and exhilarating point-of-view shots and fewer slow-motion 'grandeur' shots and quick-cut edits that 

often detract from the athleticism . 
in the end , there isn't much to it . 
a waste of fearless purity in the acting craft . 
the film is ultimately about as inspiring as a hallmark card . 
anyone not into high-tech splatterfests is advised to take the warning literally , and log on to something more user-friendly . 
disreputable doings and exquisite trappings are dampened by a lackluster script and substandard performances . 
you could easily mistake it for a sketchy work-in-progress that was inexplicably rushed to the megaplexes before its time . 
directors harry gantz and joe gantz have chosen a fascinating subject matter , but the couples exposing themselves aren't all that interesting 

. 
yet another entry in the sentimental oh-those-wacky-brits genre that was ushered in by the full monty and is still straining to produce another 

smash hit . 
for those for whom the name woody allen was once a guarantee of something fresh , sometimes funny , and usually genuinely worthwhile , 

hollywood ending is a depressing experience
femme fatale offers nothing more than a bait-and-switch that is beyond playing fair with the audience . are we dealing with dreams , visions or 

being told what actually happened as if it were the third ending of clue ? 
it could have been something special , but two things drag it down to mediocrity -- director clare peploe's misunderstanding of marivaux's 

rhythms , and mira sorvino's limitations as a classical actress . 
fluffy neo-noir hiding behind cutesy film references . 
imagine susan sontag falling in love with howard stern . 
like being trapped inside a huge video game , where exciting , inane images keep popping past your head and the same illogical things keep 

happening over and over again . 
should have been worth cheering as a breakthrough but is devoid of wit and humor . 
the best thing about the movie is its personable , amusing cast . 
these guys seem great to knock back a beer with but they're simply not funny performers . 
everything was as superficial as the forced new jersey lowbrow accent uma had . 
o Ûtimo esfor?o do diretor acaba sendo frustrado pelo roteiro , que , depois de levar um bom tempo para colocar a trama em andamento , perde-se 

de vez a partir do instante em que os estranhos acontecimentos s?o explicados . 
director david fincher and writer david koepp can't sustain it . 
finally coming down off of miramax's deep shelves after a couple of aborted attempts , waking up in reno makes a strong case for letting 

sleeping dogs lie . 
a movie that feels like the pilot episode of a new teen-targeted action tv series . 
one of the most highly-praised disappointments i've had the misfortune to watch in quite some time . 
the animation and backdrops are lush and inventive , yet return to neverland never manages to take us to that elusive , lovely place where we 

suspend our disbelief . 
director shekhar kapur and screenwriters michael schiffer and hossein amini have tried hard to modernize and reconceptualize things , but the 

barriers finally prove to be too great . 
strong filmmaking requires a clear sense of purpose , and in that oh-so-important category , the four feathers comes up short . 
the thought of watching this film with an audience full of teenagers fixating on its body humour and reinforcement of stereotypes ( of which 

they'll get plenty ) fills me with revulsion . 
devolves into the derivative , leaning on badly-rendered cgi effects . 
anyone who gets chills from movies with giant plot holes will find plenty to shake and shiver about in 'the ring . '
a grand fart coming from a director beginning to resemble someone's crazy french grandfather . 
the script is a disaster , with cloying messages and irksome characters . 
both overstuffed and undernourished . . . the film can't be called a solid success , although there's plenty of evidence here to indicate 

clooney might have better luck next time . 
plods along , minus the twisted humor and eye-popping visuals that have made miike . . . a cult hero . 
hollywood has taken quite a nosedive from alfred hitchcock's imaginative flight to shyamalan's self-important summer fluff . 
the film's maudlin focus on the young woman's infirmity and her naive dreams play like the worst kind of hollywood heart-string plucking . 
a pretentious mess . 
predictably soulless techno-tripe . 
i firmly believe that a good video game movie is going to show up soon . i also believe that resident evil is not it . 
it has the air of a surprisingly juvenile lark , a pop-influenced prank whose charms are immediately apparent and wear thin with repetition . 
the plot meanders from gripping to plodding and back . 
this is cruel , misanthropic stuff with only weak claims to surrealism and black comedy . 
no amount of nostalgia for carvey's glory days can disguise the fact that the new film is a lame kiddie flick and that carvey's considerable 

talents are wasted in it . 
best described as i know what you did last winter . 
[taylor] takes us on a ride that's consistently surprising , easy to watch -- but , oh , so dumb . 
it's difficult for a longtime admirer of his work to not be swept up in invincible and overlook its drawbacks . 
lazily directed by charles stone iii . . . from a leaden script by matthew cirulnick and novelist thulani davis . 
though jones and snipes are enthralling , the movie bogs down in rhetoric and clichÈ . 
the most remarkable ( and frustrating ) thing about world traveler , which opens today in manhattan , is that its protagonist , after being an 

object of intense scrutiny for 104 minutes , remains a complete blank . 
an artsploitation movie with too much exploitation and too little art . 
the pacing is often way off and there are too many bona fide groaners among too few laughs . 
with lines that feel like long soliloquies -- even as they are being framed in conversation -- max is static , stilted . 
barely manages for but a few seconds over its seemingly eternal running time to pique your interest , your imagination , your empathy or 

anything , really , save your disgust and your indifference . 
writer/director burr steers emphasizes the q in quirky , with mixed results . 
one senses in world traveler and in his earlier film that freundlich bears a grievous but obscure complaint against fathers , and circles it 

obsessively , without making contact . 
in between the icy stunts , the actors spout hilarious dialogue about following your dream and 'just letting the mountain tell you what to do . 

'
the obligatory break-ups and hook-ups don't seem to have much emotional impact on the characters . 
make no mistake , ivans xtc . is a mess . 
hypnotically dull , relentlessly downbeat , laughably predictable wail pitched to the cadence of a depressed fifteen-year-old's suicidal poetry 

. 
the concept is a hoot . the trailer is a riot . the movie is a dud . 
it's a boring movie about a boring man , made watchable by a bravura performance from a consummate actor incapable of being boring . 
because the intelligence level of the characters must be low , very low , very very low , for the masquerade to work , the movie contains no 

wit , only labored gags . 
it's hard to imagine another director ever making his wife look so bad in a major movie . 
some stunning visuals -- and some staggeringly boring cinema . 
these characters become wearisome . 
a hit- and-miss affair , consistently amusing but not as outrageous or funny as cho may have intended or as imaginative as one might have hoped 

. 
this may be the first cartoon ever to look as if it were being shown on the projection television screen of a sports bar . 
kim ki-deok seems to have in mind an ( emotionally at least ) adolescent audience demanding regular shocks and bouts of barely defensible 

sexual violence to keep it interested . 
a sterling film - a cross between boys don't cry , deliverance , and ode to billy joe - lies somewhere in the story of matthew shepard , but 

that film is yet to be made . 
after sitting through this sloppy , made-for-movie comedy special , it makes me wonder if lawrence hates criticism so much that he refuses to 

evaluate his own work . 
contrived pastiche of caper clichÈs . 
many shallower movies these days seem too long , but this one is egregiously short . 
just a kiss wants desperately to come off as a fanciful film about the typical problems of average people . but it is set in a world that is 

very , very far from the one most of us inhabit . 
the most ill-conceived animated comedy since the 1991 dog rover dangerfield . 
like shave ice without the topping , this cinematic snow cone is as innocuous as it is flavorless . 
despite its sincere acting , signs is just another unoriginal run of the mill sci-fi film with a flimsy ending and lots of hype . 
yet another movie which presumes that high school social groups are at war , let alone conscious of each other's existence . 
loud , chaotic and largely unfunny . 
i can't remember the last time i saw an audience laugh so much during a movie , but there's only one problemÖit's supposed to be a drama . 
qualities that were once amusing are becoming irritating . 
well , jason's gone to manhattan and hell , i guess a space station in the year 2455 can be crossed off the list of ideas for the inevitable 

future sequels ( hey , don't shoot the messenger ) . 
donovan . . . squanders his main asset , jackie chan , and fumbles the vital action sequences . 
there is no psychology here , and no real narrative logic -- just a series of carefully choreographed atrocities , which become strangely 

impersonal and abstract . 
bread , my sweet has so many flaws it would be easy for critics to shred it . it may even fall into the category of films you love to hate . i 

admit it , i hate to like it . 
frida is certainly no disaster , but neither is it the kahlo movie frida fans have been looking for . 
leaks treacle from every pore . 
the characters are so generic and the plot so bland that even as rogue cia assassins working for chris cooper's agency boss close in on the 

resourceful amnesiac , we don't feel much for damon/bourne or his predicament . 
kapur weighs down the tale with bogus profundities . 
while we want macdowell's character to retrieve her husband , we have to ask whether her personal odyssey trumps the carnage that claims so 

many lives around her . 
blue crush is as predictable as the tides . . . . the movie feels stitched together from stock situations and characters from other movies . 
if you enjoy being rewarded by a script that assumes you aren't very bright , then blood work is for you . 
trouble every day is a success in some sense , but it's hard to like a film so cold and dead . 
the film's stagecrafts are intimate and therefore bolder than the otherwise calculated artifice that defines and overwhelms the film's 

production design . 
a well-intentioned effort that's still too burdened by the actor's offbeat sensibilities for the earnest emotional core to emerge with any 

degree of accessibility . 
a family-friendly fantasy that ends up doing very little with its imaginative premise . 
a plodding look at the french revolution through the eyes of aristocrats . 
tom shadyac has learned a bit more craft since directing adams , but he still lingers over every point until the slowest viewer grasps it . 
unspools like a highbrow , low-key , 102-minute infomercial , blending entrepreneurial zeal with the testimony of satisfied customers . 
a fast-paced , glitzy but extremely silly piece . 
any reasonably creative eighth-grader could have written a more credible script , though with the same number of continuity errors . 
 . . . while the humor aspects of 'jason x' were far more entertaining than i had expected , everything else about the film tanks . 
your taste for jonah - a veggie tales movie may well depend on your threshold for pop manifestations of the holy spirit . 
like an afterschool special with costumes by gianni versace , mad love looks better than it feels . 
while certain cues , like the happy music , suggest that this movie is supposed to warm our hearts , jeong-hyang lee's film is just as likely 

to blacken that organ with cold vengefulness . 
the script , the gags , the characters are all direct-to-video stuff , and that's where this film should have remained . 
a thriller without thrills and a mystery devoid of urgent questions . 
a collage of clichÈs and a dim echo of allusions to other films . 
the film is hampered by its predictable plot and paper-thin supporting characters . 
arty gay film . 
jonah is only so-so . . . the addition of a biblical message will either improve the film for you , or it will lessen it . 
an excruciating demonstration of the unsalvageability of a movie saddled with an amateurish screenplay . 
how many more times will indie filmmakers subject us to boring , self-important stories of how horrible we are to ourselves and each other ? 
there are some laughs in this movie , but williams' anarchy gets tiresome , the satire is weak . 
as steamy as last week's pork dumplings . 
incoherence reigns . 
the somber pacing and lack of dramatic fireworks make green dragon seem more like medicine than entertainment . 
the filmmakers needed more emphasis on the storytelling and less on the glamorous machine that thrusts the audience into a future they won't 

much care about . 
another wholly unnecessary addition to the growing , moldering pile of , well , extreme stunt pictures . 
this strenuously unfunny showtime deserves the hook . 
the whole thing's fairly lame , making it par for the course for disney sequels . 
Öits solemn pretension prevents us from sharing the awe in which it holds itself . 
 . . . the good and different idea [of middle-aged romance] is not handled well and , except for the fine star performances , there is little 

else to recommend " never again . " 
if disney's cinderella proved that 'a dream is a wish your heart makes , ' then cinderella ii proves that a nightmare is a wish a studio's 

wallet makes . 
features nonsensical and laughable plotting , wooden performances , ineptly directed action sequences and some of the worst dialogue in recent 

memory . 
with rare birds , as with the shipping news before it , an attempt is made to transplant a hollywood star into newfoundland's wild soil -- and 

the rock once again resists the intrusion . 
nothing about this movie works . 
if the idea of the white man arriving on foreign shores to show wary natives the true light is abhorrent to you , the simplistic heaven will 

quite likely be more like hell . 
a spooky yarn of demonic doings on the high seas that works better the less the brain is engaged . 
none of birthday girl's calculated events take us by surprise . . . 
are monsters born , or made ? 
lisa rinzler's cinematography may be lovely , but love liza's tale itself virtually collapses into an inhalant blackout , maintaining 

consciousness just long enough to achieve callow pretension . 
the narrator and the other characters try to convince us that acting transfigures esther , but she's never seen speaking on stage ; one feels 

cheated , and esther seems to remain an unchanged dullard . 
it's exactly the kind of movie toback's detractors always accuse him of making . 
with the dog days of august upon us , think of this dog of a movie as the cinematic equivalent of high humidity . 
less about shakespeare than the spawn of fools who saw quentin tarantino's handful of raucous gangster films and branched out into their own 

pseudo-witty copycat interpretations . 
the film is like sitting in a downtown cafÈ , overhearing a bunch of typical late-twenty-somethings natter on about nothing , and desperately 

wishing you could change tables . 
this rather unfocused , all-over-the-map movie would be a lot better if it pared down its plots and characters to a few rather than dozens . . 

. or if it were subtler . . . or if it had a sense of humor . 
takes a clunky tv-movie approach to detailing a chapter in the life of the celebrated irish playwright , poet and drinker . 
not only does the thoroughly formulaic film represent totally exemplify middle-of-the-road mainstream , it also represents glossy hollywood at 

its laziest . 
a shame that stealing harvard is too busy getting in its own way to be anything but frustrating , boring , and forgettable . 
nearly every attempt at humor here is doa . 
collapses under its own meager weight . 
this is mild-mannered , been-there material given a pedestrian spin by a director who needed a touch of the flamboyant , the outrageous . 
if you adored the full monty so resoundingly that you're dying to see the same old thing in a tired old setting , then this should keep you 

reasonably entertained . 
technically and artistically inept . 
those who are only mildly curious , i fear , will be put to sleep or bewildered by the artsy and often pointless visuals . 
though tom shadyac's film kicks off spookily enough , around the halfway mark it takes an abrupt turn into glucose sentimentality and laughable 

contrivance . 
a long , dull procession of despair , set to cello music culled from a minimalist funeral . 
call me a cold-hearted curmudgeon for not being able to enjoy a mindless action movie , but i believe a movie can be mindless without being the 

peak of all things insipid . 
death might be a release . 
'[hopkins]doesn't so much phone in his performance as fax it . no , even that's too committed . he gets his secretary to fax it . " 
sodden and glum , even in those moments where it's supposed to feel funny and light . 
priggish , lethargically paced parable of renewal . 
a beautifully shot but dull and ankle-deep 'epic . '
even with its $50-million us budget , pinocchio never quite achieves the feel of a fanciful motion picture . 
this is a third-person story now , told by hollywood , and much more ordinary for it . 
the filmmakers know how to please the eye , but it is not always the prettiest pictures that tell the best story . 
written , flatly , by david kendall and directed , barely , by there's something about mary co-writer ed decter . 
the characters are interesting and the relationship between yosuke and saeko is worth watching as it develops , but there's not enough to the 

story to fill two hours . 
very well made , but doesn't generate a lot of tension . 
like being invited to a classy dinner soiree and not knowing anyone . you leave the same way you came -- a few tasty morsels under your belt , 

but no new friends . 
it's depressing to see how far herzog has fallen . 
the question hanging over the time machine is not , as the main character suggests , 'what if ? ' but rather , 'how can you charge money for 

this ? '
millions of dollars heaped upon a project of such vast proportions need to reap more rewards than spiffy bluescreen technique and stylish 

weaponry . 
 " freaky friday , " it's not . 
perhaps a better celebration of these unfairly dismissed heroes would be a film that isn't this painfully forced , false and fabricated . 
although no pastry is violated , this nasty comedy pokes fun at the same easy targets as other rowdy raunch-fests -- farts , boobs , 

unmentionables -- without much success . 
in this film , aussie david caesar channels the not-quite-dead career of guy ritchie . 
maybe you'll be lucky , and there'll be a power outage during your screening so you can get your money back . 
the characterizations and dialogue lack depth or complexity , with the ironic exception of scooter . 
this film was made by and for those folks who collect the serial killer cards and are fascinated by the mere suggestion of serial killers . for 

the rest of us , sitting through dahmer's two hours amounts to little more than punishment . 
narc can only remind us of brilliant crime dramas without becoming one itself . 
somewhere inside the mess that is world traveler , there is a mediocre movie trying to get out . 
a tedious parable about honesty and good sportsmanship . 
its strengths and weaknesses play off each other virtually to a stand-off , with the unfortunate trump card being the dreary mid-section of the 

film . 
an artful yet depressing film that makes a melodramatic mountain out of the molehill of a missing bike . 
the movie's ultimate point -- that everyone should be themselves -- is trite , but the screenwriter and director michel gondry restate it to 

the point of ridiculousness . 
a glossy knock-off of a b-movie revenge flick . 
 . . . expands the horizons of boredom to the point of collapse , turning into a black hole of dullness , from which no interesting concept can 

escape . 
it's just plain boring . 
sad nonsense , this . but not without cheesy fun factor . 
one of those decades-spanning historical epics that strives to be intimate and socially encompassing but fails to do justice to either effort 

in three hours of screen time . 
really dumb but occasionally really funny . 
the movie wavers between hallmark card sentimentality and goofy , life-affirming moments straight out of a cellular phone commercial . 
a half-assed film . 
the director's many dodges and turns add up to little more than a screenful of gamesmanship that's low on both suspense and payoff . 
while the transgressive trappings ( especially the frank sex scenes ) ensure that the film is never dull , rodrigues's beast-within metaphor is 

ultimately rather silly and overwrought , making the ambiguous ending seem goofy rather than provocative . 
the satire is unfocused , while the story goes nowhere . 
they threw loads of money at an idea that should've been so much more even if it was only made for teenage boys and wrestling fans . 
it's mired in a shabby script that piles layer upon layer of action man clichÈ atop wooden dialogue and a shifting tone that falls far short of 

the peculiarly moral amorality of [woo's] best work . 
reyes' directorial debut has good things to offer , but ultimately it's undone by a sloppy script
if you're over 25 , have an iq over 90 , and have a driver's license , you should be able to find better entertainment . 
the darker elements of misogyny and unprovoked violence suffocate the illumination created by the two daughters and the sparse instances of 

humor meant to shine through the gloomy film noir veil . 
 . . . the picture's cleverness is ironically muted by the very people who are intended to make it shine . 
never does " lilo & stitch " reach the emotion or timelessness of disney's great past , or even that of more recent successes such as " mulan " 

or " tarzan . " 
one of those so-so films that could have been much better . 
crossroads feels like a teenybopper ed wood film , replete with the pubescent scandalous innuendo and the high-strung but flaccid drama . 
fails to satisfactorily exploit its gender politics , genre thrills or inherent humor . 
interview with the assassin is structured less as a documentary and more as a found relic , and as such the film has a difficult time shaking 

its blair witch project real-time roots . 
cacoyannis' vision is far less mature , interpreting the play as a call for pity and sympathy for anachronistic phantasms haunting the imagined 

glory of their own pasts . 
it has more in common with a fireworks display than a movie , which normally is expected to have characters and a storyline . 
it appears to have been made by people to whom the idea of narrative logic or cohesion is an entirely foreign concept . 
less a heartfelt appeal for the handicapped than a nice belgian waffle . 
it's not helpful to listen to extremist name-calling , regardless of whether you think kissinger was a calculating fiend or just a slippery 

self-promoter . 
abandon spends 90 minutes trying figure out whether or not some cocky pseudo-intellectual kid has intentionally left college or was killed . 

the only problem is that , by the end , no one in the audience or the film seems to really care . 
no such thing is sort of a minimalist beauty and the beast , but in this case the beast should definitely get top billing . robert john burke 

as the monster horns in and steals the show . 
due to stodgy , soap opera-ish dialogue , the rest of the cast comes across as stick figures reading lines from a teleprompter . 
[t]he film is never sure to make a clear point ñ even if it seeks to rely on an ambiguous presentation . 
while it may not add up to the sum of its parts , holofcener's film offers just enough insight to keep it from being simpleminded , and the 

ensemble cast is engaging enough to keep you from shifting in your chair too often . 
an overwrought taiwanese soaper about three people and their mixed-up relationship . 
nobody seems to have cared much about any aspect of it , from its cheesy screenplay to the grayish quality of its lighting to its last-minute , 

haphazard theatrical release . 
a thoroughly awful movie--dumb , narratively chaotic , visually sloppy . . . a weird amalgam of 'the thing' and a geriatric 'scream . '
 . . . another example of how sandler is losing his touch . 
nothing sticks , really , except a lingering creepiness one feels from being dragged through a sad , sordid universe of guns , drugs , avarice 

and damaged dreams . 
what goes on for the 110 minutes of " panic room " is a battle of witlessness between a not-so-bright mother and daughter and an even less 

capable trio of criminals . 
the plot's contrivances are uncomfortably strained . 
guilty of the worst sin of attributable to a movie like this : it's not scary in the slightest . 
schnieder bounces around with limp wrists , wearing tight tummy tops and hip huggers , twirling his hair on his finger and assuming that's 

enough to sustain laughs . . . 
its simplicity puts an exclamation point on the fact that this isn't something to be taken seriously , but it also wrecks any chance of the 

movie rising above similar fare . 
by the final whistle you're convinced that this mean machine was a decent tv outing that just doesn't have big screen magic . 
to say that this vapid vehicle is downright doltish and uneventful is just as obvious as telling a country skunk that he has severe body odor . 
a film of empty , fetishistic violence in which murder is casual and fun . 
pretend it's a werewolf itself by avoiding eye contact and walking slowly away . it's fun , but it's a real howler . 
some fine acting , but ultimately a movie with no reason for being . 
it's difficult to feel anything much while watching this movie , beyond mild disturbance or detached pleasure at the acting . 
a waterlogged version of 'fatal attraction' for the teeny-bopper set . . . a sad , soggy potboiler that wastes the talents of its attractive 

young leads . 
it tells its story in a flat manner and leaves you with the impression that you should have gotten more out of it than you did . 
sweet gentle jesus , did the screenwriters just do a cut-and-paste of every bad action-movie line in history ? 
it's not the worst comedy of the year , but it certainly won't win any honors . 
this is for the most part a useless movie , even with a great director at the helm . 
a loud , witless mess that has none of the charm and little of the intrigue from the tv series . 
even on its own ludicrous terms , the sum of all fears generates little narrative momentum , and invites unflattering comparisons to other 

installments in the ryan series . 
though it inspires some ( out-of-field ) creative thought , the film is -- to its own detriment -- much more a cinematic collage than a 

polemical tract . 
as predictable as the outcome of a globetrotters-generals game , juwanna mann is even more ludicrous than you'd expect from the guy-in-a-dress 

genre , and a personal low for everyone involved . 
sinks into the usual cafeteria goulash of fart jokes , masturbation jokes , and racist japanese jokes . 
where tom green stages his gags as assaults on america's knee-jerk moral sanctimony , jackass lacks aspirations of social upheaval . 
more of an intriguing curiosity than a gripping thriller . 
the april 2002 instalment of the american war for independence , complete with loads of cgi and bushels of violence , but not a drop of human 

blood . 
contains all the substance of a twinkie -- easy to swallow , but scarcely nourishing . 
return to neverland manages to straddle the line between another classic for the company and just another run-of-the-mill disney sequel 

intended for the home video market . 
rarely does a film so graceless and devoid of merit as this one come along . 
it's a thin notion , repetitively stretched out to feature length , awash in self-consciously flashy camera effects , droning house music and 

flat , flat dialogue . 
on a certain base level , blue crush delivers what it promises , just not well enough to recommend it . 
the colorful masseur wastes its time on mood rather than riding with the inherent absurdity of ganesh's rise up the social ladder . 
 . . . an incredibly heavy-handed , manipulative dud that feels all too familiar . 
wimps out by going for that pg-13 rating , so the more graphic violence is mostly off-screen and the sexuality is muted . 
trapped presents a frightening and compelling 'what if ? ' scenario that will give most parents pause . . . . then , something terrible happens 

. 
madonna has made herself over so often now , there's apparently nothing left to work with , sort of like michael jackson's nose . 
never having seen the first two films in the series , i can't compare friday after next to them , but nothing would change the fact that what 

we have here is a load of clams left in the broiling sun for a good three days . 
the story is lacking any real emotional impact , and the plot is both contrived and cliched . 
a depraved , incoherent , instantly disposable piece of hackery . 
it's a bad action movie because there's no rooting interest and the spectacle is grotesque and boring . 
[soderbergh] tends to place most of the psychological and philosophical material in italics rather than trust an audience's intelligence , and 

he creates an overall sense of brusqueness . 
handsome and sincere but slightly awkward in its combination of entertainment and evangelical boosterism . 
so aggressively cheery that pollyana would reach for a barf bag . 
scooby-doo doesn't know if it wants to be a retro-refitting exercise in campy recall for older fans or a silly , nickelodeon-esque kiddie flick 

. 
russell lacks the visual panache , the comic touch , and perhaps the budget of sommers's title-bout features . 
highly uneven and inconsistent . . . margarita happy hour kinda resembles the el cheapo margaritas served within . 
very stupid and annoying . 
the sum of all fears pretends to be a serious exploration of nuclear terrorism , but it's really nothing more than warmed-over cold war 

paranoia . 
a listless and desultory affair . 
represents the depths to which the girls-behaving-badly film has fallen . 
how inept is serving sara ? it makes even elizabeth hurley seem graceless and ugly . 
jam-packed with literally bruising jokes . every five minutes or so , someone gets clocked . 
wins my vote for 'the 2002 enemy of cinema' award . 
any chekhov is better than no chekhov , but it would be a shame if this was your introduction to one of the greatest plays of the last 100 

years . 
helmer hudlin tries to make a hip comedy , but his dependence on slapstick defeats the possibility of creating a more darkly edged tome . 
lazy , miserable and smug . this is one of the biggest disappointments of the year . 
formula 51 has dulled your senses faster and deeper than any recreational drug on the market . 
every visual joke is milked , every set-up obvious and lengthy , every punchline predictable . there's no energy . 
apparently writer-director attal thought he need only cast himself and his movie-star wife sitting around in their drawers to justify a film . 
after the setup , the air leaks out of the movie , flattening its momentum with about an hour to go . 
this is a poster movie , a mediocre tribute to films like them ! 
at three hours and with very little story or character development , there is plenty of room for editing , and a much shorter cut surely would 

have resulted in a smoother , more focused narrative without sacrificing any of the cultural intrigue . 
a bit too derivative to stand on its own as the psychological thriller it purports to be . 
a crude teen-oriented variation on a theme that the playwright craig lucas explored with infinitely more grace and eloquence in his prelude to 

a kiss . 
the film's darker moments become smoothed over by an overwhelming need to tender inspirational tidings , especially in the last few cloying 

moments . 
if you recognize zeus ( the dog from snatch ) it will make you wish you were at home watching that movie instead of in the theater watching 

this one . 
abysmally pathetic
this is the kind of movie that you only need to watch for about thirty seconds before you say to yourself , 'ah , yes , here we have a bad , 

bad , bad movie . '
shanghai ghetto should be applauded for finding a new angle on a tireless story , but you might want to think twice before booking passage . 
plays like a checklist of everything rob reiner and his cast were sending up . 
there's too much forced drama in this wildly uneven movie , about a young man's battle with his inescapable past and uncertain future in a very 

shapable but largely unfulfilling present . 
it's at once laughable and compulsively watchable , in its committed dumbness . 
all the sensuality , all the eroticism of a good vampire tale has been , pardon the pun , sucked out and replaced by goth goofiness . 
a cross between blow and boyz n the hood , this movie strives to be more , but doesn't quite get there . good performances keep it from being a 

total rehash . 
the screenplay is hugely overwritten , with tons and tons of dialogue -- most of it given to children . 
troll the cult section of your local video store for the real deal . 
at times , the movie looks genuinely pretty . your nightmares , on the other hand , will be anything but . not even felinni would know what to 

make of this italian freakshow . 
elmo touts his drug as being 51 times stronger than coke . if you're looking for a tale of brits behaving badly , watch snatch again . it's 51 

times better than this . 
it's difficult to conceive of anyone who has reached puberty actually finding the characters in slackers or their antics amusing , let alone 

funny . 
despite its promising cast of characters , big trouble remains a loosely tied series of vignettes which only prove that 'zany' doesn't 

necessarily mean 'funny . '
both shrill and soporific , and because everything is repeated five or six times , it can seem tiresomely simpleminded . 
does not go far enough in its humor or stock ideas to stand out as particularly memorable or even all that funny . 
neither revelatory nor truly edgy--merely crassly flamboyant and comedically labored . 
just about everyone involved here seems to be coasting . there are a few modest laughs , but certainly no thrills . 
fails so fundamentally on every conventional level that it achieves some kind of goofy grandeur . 
there's a persistent theatrical sentiment and a woozy quality to the manner of the storytelling , which undercuts the devastatingly telling 

impact of utter loss personified in the film's simple title . 
while howard's appreciation of brown and his writing is clearly well-meaning and sincere , the movie would be impossible to sit through were it 

not for the supporting cast . 
a preposterous , prurient whodunit . 
go , girls , right down the reality drain . 
boasting some of the most poorly staged and lit action in memory , impostor is as close as you can get to an imitation movie . 
can be classified as one of those 'alternate reality' movies . . . except that it would have worked so much better dealing in only one reality 

. 
predictable and cloying , though brown sugar is so earnest in its yearning for the days before rap went nihilistic that it summons more spirit 

and bite than your average formulaic romantic quadrangle . 
 . . . unlikable , uninteresting , unfunny , and completely , utterly inept . 
the film is so busy making reference to other films and trying to be other films that it fails to have a heart , mind or humor of its own . 
an imponderably stilted and self-consciously arty movie . 
muddled , melodramatic paranormal romance is an all-time low for kevin costner . 
too clumsy in key moments . . . to make a big splash . 
just a bunch of good actors flailing around in a caper that's neither original nor terribly funny . 
`matrix'-style massacres erupt throughout . . . but the movie has a tougher time balancing its violence with kafka-inspired philosophy . 
at least it's a fairly impressive debut from the director , charles stone iii . 
it all unfolds predictably , and the adventures that happen along the way seem repetitive and designed to fill time , providing no real sense 

of suspense . 
wanker goths are on the loose ! run for your lives ! 
why would anyone cast the magnificent jackie chan in a movie full of stunt doubles and special effects ? 
a grating , emaciated flick . 
unambitious writing emerges in the movie , using a plot that could have come from an animated-movie screenwriting textbook . 
presents a good case while failing to provide a reason for us to care beyond the very basic dictums of human decency . 
we have poignancy jostling against farce , thoughtful dialogue elbowed aside by one-liners , and a visual style that incorporates rotoscope 

animation for no apparent reason except , maybe , that it looks neat . 
 . . . unbearably lame . 
according to the script , grant and bullock's characters are made for each other . but you'd never guess that from the performances . 
the animation merely serves up a predictable , maudlin story that swipes heavily from bambi and the lion king , yet lacks the emotional 

resonance of either of those movies . 
ararat feels like a book report
steve oedekerk is , alas , no woody allen . 
a lot like the imaginary sport it projects onto the screen -- loud , violent and mindless . 
an amalgam of the fugitive , blade runner , and total recall , only without much energy or tension . 
the acting is amateurish , the cinematography is atrocious , the direction is clumsy , the writing is insipid and the violence is at once 

luridly graphic and laughably unconvincing . 
shows that jackie chan is getting older , and that's something i would rather live in denial about
with miscast leads , banal dialogue and an absurdly overblown climax , killing me softly belongs firmly in the so-bad-it's-good camp . 
alas , the black-and-white archival footage of their act showcases pretty mediocre shtick . 
the slapstick is labored , and the bigger setpieces flat . 
this is the kind of movie where people who have never picked a lock do so easily after a few tries and become expert fighters after a few weeks 

. 
the problem with the mayhem in formula 51 is not that it's offensive , but that it's boring . 
much of the digitally altered footage appears jagged , as if filmed directly from a television monitor , while the extensive use of stock 

footage quickly becomes a tiresome clichÈ . 
the film never rises above a conventional , two dimension tale
mark wahlberg . . . may look classy in a '60s-homage pokepie hat , but as a character he's dry , dry , dry . 
told in scattered fashion , the movie only intermittently lives up to the stories and faces and music of the men who are its subject . 
the irony is that this film's cast is uniformly superb ; their performances could have -- should have -- been allowed to stand on their own . 
now i can see why people thought i was too hard on " the mothman prophecies " . 
if ever a concept came handed down from the movie gods on a silver platter , this is it . if ever such a dependable concept was botched in 

execution , this is it . 
with an unusual protagonist ( a kilt-wearing jackson ) and subject matter , the improbable " formula 51 " is somewhat entertaining , but it 

could have been much stronger . 
sandra bullock's best dramatic performance to date ( is ) almost enough to lift ( this ) thrill-kill cat-and-mouser . . . above its paint-by-

numbers plot . 
a feel-good movie that doesn't give you enough to feel good about . 
adolescents will be adequately served by the movie's sophomoric blend of shenanigans and slapstick , although the more lascivious-minded might 

be disappointed in the relative modesty of a movie that sports a 'topless tutorial service . '
this mistaken-identity picture is so film-culture referential that the final product is a ghost . 
the picture emerges as a surprisingly anemic disappointment . 
de niro cries . you'll cry for your money back . 
slap me , i saw this movie . 
[the kid's] just too bratty for sympathy , and as the film grows to its finale , his little changes ring hollow . 
behind the glitz , hollywood is sordid and disgusting . quelle surprise ! 
scherfig , who has had a successful career in tv , tackles more than she can handle . 
just consider what new best friend does not have , beginning with the minor omission of a screenplay . 
oscar caliber cast doesn't live up to material
the problems of the people in love in the time of money are hardly specific to their era . they just have problems , which are neither original 

nor are presented in convincing way . 
carrying this wafer-thin movie on his nimble shoulders , chan wades through putrid writing , direction and timing with a smile that says , 'if 

i stay positive , maybe i can channel one of my greatest pictures , drunken master . '
so putrid it is not worth the price of the match that should be used to burn every print of the film . 
in the end , the movie bogs down in insignificance , saying nothing about kennedy's assassination and revealing nothing about the pathology it 

pretends to investigate . 
starts out ballsy and stylish but fails to keep it up and settles into clichÈs . 
sometimes makes less sense than the bruckheimeresque american action flicks it emulates . 
one of those films where the characters inhabit that special annex of hell where adults behave like kids , children behave like adults and 

everyone screams at the top of their lungs no matter what the situation . 
there's only one way to kill michael myers for good : stop buying tickets to these movies . 
bland but harmless . 
'rare birds' tries to force its quirkiness upon the audience . 
the movie is about as humorous as watching your favorite pet get buried alive . 
resident evil is what comes from taking john carpenter's ghosts of mars and eliminating the beheadings . in other words , about as bad a film 

you're likely to see all year . 
five screenwriters are credited with the clichÈ-laden screenplay ; it seems as if each watered down the version of the one before . 
the whole thing comes off like a particularly amateurish episode of bewitched that takes place during spring break . 
well made but uninvolving , bloodwork isn't a terrible movie , just a stultifyingly obvious one -- an unrewarding collar for a murder mystery . 
so we got ten little indians meets friday the 13th by way of clean and sober , filmed on the set of carpenter's the thing and loaded with 

actors you're most likely to find on the next inevitable incarnation of the love boat . 
the movie's blatant derivativeness is one reason it's so lackluster . 
la de salma es una versiÛn de frida superficial , preciosista y sin ning˙n contenido . 
kids don't mind crappy movies as much as adults , provided there's lots of cute animals and clumsy people . 'snow dogs' has both . 
it's almost as if it's an elaborate dare more than a full-blooded film . 
wobbly senegalese updating of " carmen " which is best for the stunning star turn by djeinaba diop gai
it's the humanizing stuff that will probably sink the film for anyone who doesn't think about percentages all day long . 
ken russell would love this . in one scene , we get a stab at soccer hooliganism , a double-barreled rip-off of quentin tarantino's climactic 

shootout ó and meat loaf explodes . 
bella is the picture of health with boundless energy until a few days before she dies . this is absolutely and completely ridiculous and an 

insult to every family whose mother has suffered through the horrible pains of a death by cancer . 
the premise of " abandon " holds promise , . . . but its delivery is a complete mess . 
what could have been a pointed little chiller about the frightening seductiveness of new technology loses faith in its own viability and 

succumbs to joyless special-effects excess . 
a little too ponderous to work as shallow entertainment , not remotely incisive enough to qualify as drama , monsoon wedding serves mostly to 

whet one's appetite for the bollywood films . 
unless bob crane is someone of particular interest to you , this film's impressive performances and adept direction aren't likely to leave a 

lasting impression . 
the rock has a great presence but one battle after another is not the same as one battle followed by killer cgi effects . 
the bottom line with nemesis is the same as it has been with all the films in the series : fans will undoubtedly enjoy it , and the uncommitted 

needn't waste their time on it . 
the lousy john q all but spits out denzel washington's fine performance in the title role . 
the whole thing feels like a ruse , a tactic to cover up the fact that the picture is constructed around a core of flimsy -- or , worse yet , 

nonexistent -- ideas . 
what a stiflingly unfunny and unoriginal mess this is ! 
the film is so packed with subplots involving the various silbersteins that it feels more like the pilot episode of a tv series than a feature 

film . 
opera on film is never satisfactory . the art demands live viewing . the innate theatrics that provide its thrills and extreme emotions lose 

their luster when flattened onscreen . 
despite all the closed-door hanky-panky , the film is essentially juiceless . 
it is parochial , accessible to a chosen few , standoffish to everyone else , and smugly suggests a superior moral tone is more important than 

filmmaking skill
the sweetest thing leaves an awful sour taste . 
it's lost the politics and the social observation and become just another situation romance about a couple of saps stuck in an inarticulate 

screenplay . 
terminally bland , painfully slow and needlessly confusing . . . the movie , shot on digital videotape rather than film , is frequently 

indecipherable . 
as dumb and cheesy as they may be , the cartoons look almost shakespearean -- both in depth and breadth -- after watching this digital-

effects-heavy , supposed family-friendly comedy . 
aloof and lacks any real raw emotion , which is fatal for a film that relies on personal relationships . 
a low-rent retread of the alien pictures . 
serviceable at best , slightly less than serviceable at worst . 
its initial excitement settles into a warmed over pastiche . 
a big meal of cliches that the talented cast generally chokes on . 
the story has little wit and no surprises . 
the merchant-ivory team continues to systematically destroy everything we hold dear about cinema , only now it's begun to split up so that it 

can do even more damage . 
what should have been a cutting hollywood satire is instead about as fresh as last week's issue of variety . 
hey everybody , wanna watch a movie in which a guy dressed as a children's party clown gets violently gang-raped ? i didn't think so . 
a little more intensity and a little less charm would have saved this film a world of hurt . 
dense and enigmatic . . . elusive . . . stagy and stilted
[t]his slop doesn't even have potential as a cult film , as it's too loud to shout insults at the screen . 
the movie's plot is almost entirely witless and inane , carrying every gag two or three times beyond its limit to sustain a laugh . 
 . . . may work as an addictive guilty pleasure but the material never overcomes its questionable satirical ambivalence . this scarlet's letter 

is a . . . as in aimless , arduous , and arbitrary . 
plays like a glossy melodrama that occasionally verges on camp . 
the central character isn't complex enough to hold our interest . 
a modestly comic , modestly action-oriented world war ii adventure that , in terms of authenticity , is one of those films that requires the 

enemy to never shoot straight . 
a puppy dog so desperate for attention it nearly breaks its little neck trying to perform entertaining tricks . 
just about all of the film is confusing on one level or another , making ararat far more demanding than it needs to be . 
a little less extreme than in the past , with longer exposition sequences between them , and with fewer gags to break the tedium . 
there's a heavy stench of 'been there , done that' hanging over the film . it's everything you'd expect -- but nothing more . 
the biggest problem with satin rouge is lilia herself . she's a cipher , played by an actress who smiles and frowns but doesn't reveal an inner 

life . 
a quaint , romanticized rendering . 
what with the incessant lounge music playing in the film's background , you may mistake love liza for an adam sandler chanukah song . 
the movie's heavy-handed screenplay navigates a fast fade into pomposity and pretentiousness . 
a potentially good comic premise and excellent cast are terribly wasted . 
woody allen used to ridicule movies like hollywood ending . now he makes them . 
she's not yet an actress , not quite a singer . . . 
not a bad premise , but the execution is lackluster at best . 
been there done that . 
there is only so much baked cardboard i need to chew . 
a movie like the guys is why film criticism can be considered work . 
schnitzler's film has a great hook , some clever bits and well-drawn , if standard issue , characters , but is still only partly satisfying . 
even if it made its original release date last fall , it would've reeked of a been-there , done-that sameness . 
only two-fifths of a satisfying movie experience . 
a loud , ugly , irritating movie without any of its satirical salvos hitting a discernible target . 
[l]ame and unnecessary . 
a movie version of a paint-by-numbers picture . we can tell what it is supposed to be , but can't really call it a work of art . 
it's a brilliant , honest performance by nicholson , but the film is an agonizing bore except when the fantastic kathy bates turns up . bravado 

kathy ! 
 . . . liotta is put in an impossible spot because his character's deceptions ultimately undo him and the believability of the entire scenario 

. too bad . 
you can thank me for this . i saw juwanna mann so you don't have to . 
unfunny and lacking any sense of commitment to or affection for its characters , the reginald hudlin comedy relies on toilet humor , ethnic 

slurs . 
basically , it's pretty but dumb . 
this romantic/comedy asks the question how much souvlaki can you take before indigestion sets in . 
squandering his opportunity to make absurdist observations , burns gets caught up in the rush of slapstick thoroughfare . 
there's a neat twist , subtly rendered , that could have wrapped things up at 80 minutes , but kang tacks on three or four more endings . 
reeboir varies between a sweet smile and an angry bark , while said attempts to wear down possible pupils through repetition . it has no affect 

on the kurds , but it wore me down . 
the actors improvise and scream their way around this movie directionless , lacking any of the rollicking dark humor so necessary to make this 

kind of idea work on screen . 
co-writer/director jonathan parker's attempts to fashion a brazil-like , hyper-real satire fall dreadfully short . 
if this silly little cartoon can inspire a few kids not to grow up to be greedy bastards , more power to it . 
a superfluous sequel . . . plagued by that old familiar feeling of 'let's get this thing over with' : everyone has shown up at the appointed 

time and place , but visible enthusiasm is mighty hard to find . 
if there's a heaven for bad movies , deuces wild is on its way . 
comes off like a bad imitation of the bard . 
what's missing in murder by numbers is any real psychological grounding for the teens' deviant behaviour . being latently gay and liking to 

read are hardly enough . 
an uninspired preachy and clichÈd war film . 
horrendously amateurish filmmaking that is plainly dull and visually ugly when it isn't incomprehensible . 
a movie that harps on media-constructed 'issues' like whether compromise is the death of selfÖ this orgasm [won't be an] exceedingly memorable 

one for most people . 
slackers' jokey approach to college education is disappointingly simplistic -- the film's biggest problem -- and there are no unforgettably 

stupid stunts or uproariously rude lines of dialogue to remember it by . 
if festival in cannes nails hard- boiled hollywood argot with a bracingly nasty accuracy , much about the film , including some of its casting 

, is frustratingly unconvincing . 
the movie is too impressed with its own solemn insights to work up much entertainment value . 
i haven't seen such self-amused trash since freddy got fingered . 
little more than a well-mounted history lesson . 
rob schneider's infantile cross-dressing routines fill the hot chick , the latest gimmick from this unimaginative comedian . 
a horrible , 99-minute stink bomb . 
the film is weighed down by supporting characters who are either too goodly , wise and knowing or downright comically evil . 
her fans walked out muttering words like " horrible " and " terrible , " but had so much fun dissing the film that they didn't mind the ticket 

cost . in this case zero . 
the film is so bad it doesn't improve upon the experience of staring at a blank screen . 
sheridan's take on the author's schoolboy memoir . . . is a rather toothless take on a hard young life . 
it jumps around with little logic or continuity , presenting backstage bytes of information that never amount to a satisfying complete picture 

of this particular , anciently demanding mÈtier . 
how i killed my father is one of those art house films that makes you feel like you're watching an iceberg melt -- only it never melts . 
when it comes to the battle of hollywood vs . woo , it looks like woo's a p . o . w . 
there are a few chuckles , but not a single gag sequence that really scores , and the stars seem to be in two different movies . 
the chateau has one very funny joke and a few other decent ones , but all it amounts to is a mildly funny , sometimes tedious , ultimately 

insignificant film . 
it's dull , spiritless , silly and monotonous : an ultra-loud blast of pointless mayhem , going nowhere fast . 
the mushy finale turns john q into a movie-of-the-week tearjerker . 
content merely to lionize its title character and exploit his anger - all for easy sanctimony , formulaic thrills and a ham-fisted sermon on 

the need for national health insurance . 
the movie turns out to be [assayas'] homage to the gallic 'tradition of quality , ' in all its fusty squareness . 
its message has merit and , in the hands of a brutally honest individual like prophet jack , might have made a point or two regarding life . 
[seems] even more uselessly redundant and shamelessly money-grubbing than most third-rate horror sequels . 
it's hard to imagine that even very small children will be impressed by this tired retread . 
neither as scary-funny as tremors nor demented-funny as starship troopers , the movie isn't tough to take as long as you've paid a matinee 

price . 
if swimfan does catch on , it may be because teens are looking for something to make them laugh . 
what might've been an exhilarating exploration of an odd love triangle becomes a sprawl of uncoordinated vectors . 
the master of disguise may have made a great saturday night live sketch , but a great movie it is not . 
it's quite an achievement to set and shoot a movie at the cannes film festival and yet fail to capture its visual appeal or its atmosphere . 
boll uses a lot of quick cutting and blurry step-printing to goose things up , but dopey dialogue and sometimes inadequate performances kill 

the effect . 
it's always disappointing when a documentary fails to live up to -- or offer any new insight into -- its chosen topic . unfortunately , that's 

precisely what arthur dong's family fundamentals does . 
has the marks of a septuagenarian ; it's a crusty treatment of a clever gimmick . 
like a medium-grade network sitcom--mostly inoffensive , fitfully amusing , but ultimately so weightless that a decent draft in the auditorium 

might blow it off the screen . 
something must have been lost in the translation . 
becomes the last thing you would expect from a film with this title or indeed from any plympton film : boring . 
in the end , the film feels homogenized and a bit contrived , as if we're looking back at a tattered and ugly past with rose-tinted glasses . 
chan's stunts are limited and so embellished by editing that there's really not much of a sense of action or even action-comedy . 
rock's stand-up magic wanes . hopkins , squarely fills the screen . action - mechanical . 
 " the tuxedo " should have been the vehicle for chan that " the mask " was for jim carrey . alas , it's the man that makes the clothes . 
for casual moviegoers who stumble into rules expecting a slice of american pie hijinks starring the kid from dawson's creek , they'll probably 

run out screaming . 
the biggest problem i have ( other than the very sluggish pace ) is we never really see her esther blossom as an actress , even though her 

talent is supposed to be growing . 
what puzzles me is the lack of emphasis on music in britney spears' first movie . 
plot , characters , drama , emotions , ideas -- all are irrelevant to the experience of seeing the scorpion king . 
city by the sea is a gritty police thriller with all the dysfunctional family dynamics one could wish for . but how it washed out despite all 

of that is the project's prime mystery . 
whatever the movie's sentimental , hypocritical lessons about sexism , its true colors come out in various wet t-shirt and shower scenes . 
as a hybrid teen thriller and murder mystery , murder by numbers fits the profile too closely . 
there ain't a lot more painful than an unfunny movie that thinks it's hilarious . 
i enjoyed the movie in a superficial way , while never sure what its purpose was . 
what a pity . . . that the material is so second-rate . 
doesn't deliver a great story , nor is the action as gripping as in past seagal films . 
the kind of film that leaves you scratching your head in amazement over the fact that so many talented people could participate in such an 

ill-advised and poorly executed idea . 
nicks refuses to let slackers be seen as just another teen movie , which means he can be forgiven for frequently pandering to fans of the 

gross-out comedy . 
nothing about the film -- with the possible exception of elizabeth hurley's breasts -- is authentic . 
amid the clichÈ and foreshadowing , cage manages a degree of casual realism . . . that is routinely dynamited by blethyn . 
mostly , shafer and co-writer gregory hinton lack a strong-minded viewpoint , or a sense of humor . 
no cliche escapes the perfervid treatment of gang warfare called ces wild . 
eddie murphy and owen wilson have a cute partnership in i spy , but the movie around them is so often nearly nothing that their charm doesn't 

do a load of good . 
strictly a 'guy's film' in the worst sense of the expression . 
there's some good material in their story about a retail clerk wanting more out of life , but the movie too often spins its wheels with 

familiar situations and repetitive scenes . 
it's a lot to ask people to sit still for two hours and change watching such a character , especially when rendered in as flat and impassive a 

manner as phoenix's . 
there's something fishy about a seasonal holiday kids' movie . . . that derives its moment of most convincing emotional gravity from a scene 

where santa gives gifts to grownups . 
we're left with a story that tries to grab us , only to keep letting go at all the wrong moments . 
like many such biographical melodramas , it suffers from the awkwardness that results from adhering to the messiness of true stories . 
there is nothing redeeming about this movie . 
the film has [its] moments , but they are few and far between . 
a dreary indulgence . 
i was trying to decide what annoyed me most about god is great . . . i'm not , and then i realized that i just didn't care . 
derailed by bad writing and possibly also by some of that extensive post-production reworking to aim the film at young males in the throes of 

their first full flush of testosterone . 
deserves high marks for political courage but barely gets by on its artistic merits . 
 . . . comes alive only when it switches gears to the sentimental . 
brosnan's finest non-bondish performance yet fails to overcome the film's manipulative sentimentality and annoying stereotypes . 
a film that will be best appreciated by those willing to endure its extremely languorous rhythms , waiting for happiness is ultimately 

thoughtful without having much dramatic impact . 
to me , it sounds like a cruel deception carried out by men of marginal intelligence , with reactionary ideas about women and a total lack of 

empathy . 
tsai may be ploughing the same furrow once too often . 
flashy gadgets and whirling fight sequences may look cool , but they can't distract from the flawed support structure holding equilibrium up . 
zigzag might have been richer and more observant if it were less densely plotted . 
[a] crushing disappointment . 
how can such a cold movie claim to express warmth and longing ? in truth , it has all the heart of a porno flick ( but none of the sheer lust ) 

. 
nicks and steinberg match their own creations for pure venality -- that's giving it the old college try . 
episode ii-- attack of the clones is a technological exercise that lacks juice and delight . 
the problem with all of this : it's not really funny . 
[denis'] bare-bones narrative more closely resembles an outline for a '70s exploitation picture than the finished product . 
wanders all over the map thematically and stylistically , and borrows heavily from lynch , jeunet , and von trier while failing to find a spark 

of its own . 
viewing this underdramatized but overstated film is like watching a transcript of a therapy session brought to humdrum life by some freudian 

puppet . 
overall tomfoolery like this is a matter of taste . 
the mantra behind the project seems to have been 'it's just a kids' flick . ' translation : 'we don't need to try very hard . '
in all the annals of the movies , few films have been this odd , inexplicable and unpleasant . 
it takes a really long , slow and dreary time to dope out what tuck everlasting is about . so here it is : it's about a family of sour 

immortals . 
an essentially awkward version of the lightweight female empowerment picture we've been watching for decades
the author's devotees will probably find it fascinating ; others may find it baffling . 
writer-director walter hill and co-writer david giler try to create characters out of the obvious cliches , but wind up using them as punching 

bags . 
there's a scientific law to be discerned here that producers would be well to heed : mediocre movies start to drag as soon as the action speeds 

up ; when the explosions start , they fall to pieces . 
a cockeyed shot all the way . 
lush and beautifully photographed ( somebody suggested the stills might make a nice coffee table book ) , but ultimately you'll leave the 

theater wondering why these people mattered . 
unfortunately , one hour photo lives down to its title . thanks largely to williams , all the interesting developments are processed in 60 

minutes -- the rest is just an overexposed waste of film . 
cold , sterile and lacking any color or warmth . 
the film is undone by anachronistic quick edits and occasional jarring glimpses of a modern theater audience watching the events unfold . 
seems like someone going through the motions . 
for a film about explosions and death and spies , " ballistic : ecks vs . sever " seems as safe as a children's film . well , in some of those 

, the mother deer even dies . 
wallace gets a bit heavy handed with his message at times , and has a visual flair that waxes poetic far too much for our taste . 
impostor doesn't do much with its template , despite a remarkably strong cast . 
wraps itself in the guise of a dark and quirky comedy , but it isn't as quirky as it thinks it is and its comedy is generally mean-spirited . 
choppy , overlong documentary about 'the lifestyle . '
one sloughs one's way through the mire of this alleged psychological thriller in search of purpose or even a plot . 
a film which presses familiar herzog tropes into the service of a limpid and conventional historical fiction , when really what we demand of 

the director is to be mesmerised . 
it's a fanboy 'what if ? ' brought to life on the big screen . 
the story itself is actually quite vapid . 
it's a hellish , numbing experience to watch , and it doesn't offer any insights that haven't been thoroughly debated in the media already , 

back in the dahmer heyday of the mid-'90s . 
wait for pay per view or rental but don't dismiss barbershop out of hand . 
a few zingers aside , the writing is indifferent , and jordan brady's direction is prosaic . 
each scene drags , underscoring the obvious , and sentiment is slathered on top . 
would've been nice if the screenwriters had trusted audiences to understand a complex story , and left off the film's predictable denouement . 

then nadia's birthday might not have been such a bad day after all . 
one of those staggeringly well-produced , joylessly extravagant pictures that keep whooshing you from one visual marvel to the next , hastily , 

emptily . 
nair just doesn't have the necessary self-control to guide a loose , poorly structured film through the pitfalls of incoherence and redundancy 

. 
enthusiastically taking up the current teen movie concern with bodily functions , walt becker's film pushes all the demographically appropriate 

comic buttons . 
it's the funniest american comedy since graffiti bridge . 
that neither protagonist has a distinguishable condition hardly matters because both are just actory concoctions , defined by childlike dimness 

and a handful of quirks . 
what starts off as a possible argentine american beauty reeks like a room stacked with pungent flowers . 
the project's filmmakers forgot to include anything even halfway scary as they poorly rejigger fatal attraction into a high school setting . 
in old-fashioned screenwriting parlance , ms . shreve's novel proved too difficult a text to 'lick , ' despite the efforts of a first-rate cast 

. 
solondz may well be the only one laughing at his own joke
stitch is a bad mannered , ugly and destructive little * * * * . no cute factor hereÖ . not that i mind ugly ; the problem is he has no 

character , loveable or otherwise . 
deep down , i realized the harsh reality of my situation : i would leave the theater with a lower i . q . than when i had entered . 
a really funny fifteen-minute short stretched beyond its limits to fill an almost feature-length film . 
aside from the fact that the film idiotically uses the website feardotcom . com or the improperly hammy performance from poor stephen rea , the 

film gets added disdain for the fact that it is nearly impossible to look at or understand . 
it is bad , but certainly not without merit as entertainment . 
for its 100 minutes running time , you'll wait in vain for a movie to happen . 
a work that lacks both a purpose and a strong pulse . 
a faster paced family flick . upper teens may get cynical . smaller numbered kidlets will enjoy . 
while this film has an 'a' list cast and some strong supporting players , the tale -- like its central figure , vivi -- is just a little bit 

hard to love . 
it's a road-trip drama with too many wrong turns . 
most fish stories are a little peculiar , but this is one that should be thrown back in the river . 
it's all gratuitous before long , as if schwentke were fulfilling a gross-out quota for an anticipated audience demographic instead of shaping 

the material to fit the story . 
 " i blame all men for war , " [the warden's daughter] tells her father . the movie is about as deep as that sentiment . 
it's fitfully funny but never really takes off . 
i've seen some bad singer-turned actors , but lil bow wow takes the cake . 
by halfway through this picture i was beginning to hate it , and , of course , feeling guilty for it . . . . then , miracle of miracles , the 

movie does a flip-flop . 
for all the complications , it's all surprisingly predictable . 
it's been 20 years since 48 hrs . made eddie murphy a movie star and the man hasn't aged a day . but his showboating wise-cracker stock persona 

sure is getting old . 
if deuces wild had been tweaked up a notch it would have become a camp adventure , one of those movies that's so bad it starts to become good . 

but it wasn't . 
for a film about action , ultimate x is the gabbiest giant-screen movie ever , bogging down in a barrage of hype . 
 . . . a low rate annie featuring some kid who can't act , only echoes of jordan , and weirdo actor crispin glover screwing things up old 

school . 
it might not be 1970s animation , but everything else about it is straight from the saturday morning cartoons ñ a retread story , bad writing 

, and the same old silliness . 
the picture seems uncertain whether it wants to be an acidic all-male all about eve or a lush , swooning melodrama in the intermezzo strain . 
tends to plod . 
a nearly 21/2 hours , the film is way too indulgent . 
gorgeous to look at but insufferably tedious and turgid . . . a curiously constricted epic . 
it looks much more like a cartoon in the end than the simpsons ever has . 
with a tighter editorial process and firmer direction this material could work , especially since the actresses in the lead roles are all more 

than competent , but as is , personal velocity seems to be idling in neutral . 
doesn't really add up to much . 
it's better suited for the history or biography channel , but there's no arguing the tone of the movie - it leaves a bad taste in your mouth 

and questions on your mind . 
an entertainment so in love with its overinflated mythology that it no longer recognizes the needs of moviegoers for real characters and 

compelling plots . 
a prolonged extrusion of psychopathic pulp . 
borrows from other movies like it in the most ordinary and obvious fashion . 
it's surprisingly bland despite the heavy doses of weird performances and direction . 
a chilly , remote , emotionally distant piece . . . so dull that its tagline should be : 'in space , no one can hear you snore . '
the characters seem one-dimensional , and the film is superficial and will probably be of interest primarily to its target audience . 
sorvino makes the princess seem smug and cartoonish , and the film only really comes alive when poor hermocrates and leontine pathetically 

compare notes about their budding amours . 
it's like a drive-by . you can drive right by it without noticing anything special , save for a few comic turns , intended and otherwise . 
everything -- even life on an aircraft carrier -- is sentimentalized . 
this would-be 'james bond for the extreme generation' pic is one big , dumb action movie . stress 'dumb . '
the movie has generic virtues , and despite a lot of involved talent , seems done by the numbers . 
when your subject is illusion versus reality , shouldn't the reality seem at least passably real ? 
it's a terrible movie in every regard , and utterly painful to watch . 
this is rote spookiness , with nary an original idea ( or role , or edit , or score , or anything , really ) in sight , and the whole of the 

proceedings beg the question 'why ? '
a fan film that for the uninitiated plays better on video with the sound turned down . 
too infuriatingly quirky and taken with its own style . 
there's a whole heap of nothing at the core of this slight coming-of-age/coming-out tale . 
as much as i laughed throughout the movie , i cannot mount a cogent defense of the film as entertainment , or even performance art , although 

the movie does leave you marveling at these guys' superhuman capacity to withstand pain . 
the type of dumbed-down exercise in stereotypes that gives the [teen comedy] genre a bad name . 
distinctly sub-par . . . more likely to drown a viewer in boredom than to send any shivers down his spine . 
plays like a bad blend of an overripe episode of tv's dawson's creek and a recycled and dumbed-down version of love story . 
unless you come in to the film with a skateboard under your arm , you're going to feel like you weren't invited to the party . 
when the casting call for this movie went out , it must have read 'seeking anyone with acting ambition but no sense of pride or shame . '
just isn't as weird as it ought to be . 
a " home alone " film that is staged like " rosemary's baby , " but is not as well-conceived as either of those films . 
[siegel] and co-writers lisa bazadona and grace woodard have relied too much on convention in creating the characters who surround frankie . 
no film could possibly be more contemptuous of the single female population . 
`hey arnold ! ' has some visual wit . . . but little imagination elsewhere . 
they're going through the motions , but the zip is gone . 
a sluggish pace and lack of genuine narrative hem the movie in every bit as much as life hems in the spirits of these young women . 
a low-budget affair , tadpole was shot on digital video , and the images often look smeary and blurry , to the point of distraction . then 

again , in a better movie , you might not have noticed . 
it's mindless junk like this that makes you appreciate original romantic comedies like punch-drunk love . 
the movie is like a year late for tapping into our reality tv obsession , and even tardier for exploiting the novelty of the " webcast . " 
tale will be all too familiar for anyone who's seen george roy hill's 1973 film , " the sting . " 
gets the look and the period trappings right , but it otherwise drowns in a sea of visual and verbal clichÈs . 
it's hard to quibble with a flick boasting this many genuine cackles , but notorious c . h . o . still feels like a promising work-in-progress 

. 
anyone who wants to start writing screenplays can just follow the same blueprint from hundreds of other films , sell it to the highest bidder 

and walk away without anyone truly knowing your identity . 
a major waste . . . generic . 
the problem with the bread , my sweet is that it's far too sentimental . 
a late-night cable sexploitation romp masquerading as a thriller about the ruthless social order that governs college cliques . 
falls short in explaining the music and its roots . 
never inspires more than an interested detachment . 
what might have emerged as hilarious lunacy in the hands of woody allen or mel brooks ( at least during their '70s heyday ) comes across as 

lame and sophomoric in this debut indie feature . 
despite slick production values and director roger michell's tick-tock pacing , the final effect is like having two guys yelling in your face 

for two hours . 
pretty much sucks , but has a funny moment or two . 
they do a good job of painting this family dynamic for the audience but they tried to squeeze too many elements into the film . 
a supernatural mystery that doesn't know whether it wants to be a suspenseful horror movie or a weepy melodrama . it ends up being neither , 

and fails at both endeavors . 
two badly interlocked stories drowned by all too clever complexity . 
it is so earnest , so overwrought and so wildly implausible that it begs to be parodied . 
these are textbook lives of quiet desperation . 
swimfan , like fatal attraction , eventually goes overboard with a loony melodramatic denouement in which a high school swimming pool 

substitutes for a bathtub . 
claims to sort the bad guys from the good , which is its essential problem . 
purposefully shocking in its eroticized gore , if unintentionally dull in its lack of poetic frissons . 
feels like pieces a bunch of other , better movies slapped together . 
almost everything about the film is unsettling , from the preposterous hairpiece worn by lai's villainous father to the endless action 

sequences . 
writer-director randall wallace has bitten off more than he or anyone else could chew , and his movie veers like a drunken driver through heavy 

traffic . 
it follows the blair witch formula for an hour , in which we're told something creepy and vague is in the works , and then it goes awry in the 

final 30 minutes . 
one can't shake the feeling that crossroads is nothing more than an hour-and-a-half-long commercial for britney's latest album . 
phoned-in business as usual . 
there's an epic here , but you have to put it together yourself . 
what little atmosphere is generated by the shadowy lighting , macabre sets , and endless rain is offset by the sheer ugliness of everything 

else . 
director-chef gabriele muccino keeps it fast -- zippy , comin' at ya -- as if fearing that his film is molto superficiale . 
tartakovsky's team has some freakish powers of visual charm , but the five writers slip into the modern rut of narrative banality . 
the most horrific movie experience i've had since " can't stop the music . " it may as well be called " jar-jar binks : the movie . " it's that 

painful . 
god is great , the movie's not . 
like a three-ring circus , there are side stories aplenty -- none of them memorable . 
when in doubt , the film ratchets up the stirring soundtrack , throws in a fish-out-of-water gag and lets the cliched dialogue rip . or else a 

doggie winks . 
a 'girls gone wild' video for the boho art-house crowd , the burning sensation isn't a definitive counter-cultural document -- its makers 

aren't removed and inquisitive enough for that . 
as original and insightful as last week's episode of behind the music . 
plays like john le carrÈ with a couple of burnt-out cylinders . 
you may be galled that you've wasted nearly two hours of your own precious life with this silly little puddle of a movie . 
it's neither as sappy as big daddy nor as anarchic as happy gilmore or the waterboy , but it has its moments . 
despite the surface attractions -- conrad l . hall's cinematography will likely be nominated for an oscar next year -- there's something 

impressive and yet lacking about everything . 
a smug and convoluted action-comedy that doesn't allow an earnest moment to pass without reminding audiences that it's only a movie . 
[crystal and de niro] manage to squeeze out some good laughs but not enough to make this silly con job sing . 
worthless , from its pseudo-rock-video opening to the idiocy of its last frames . 
the christ allegory doesn't work because there is no foundation for it
go for la salle's performance , and make do as best you can with a stuttering script . 
it's hard to care about a film that proposes as epic tragedy the plight of a callow rich boy who is forced to choose between his beautiful , 

self-satisfied 22-year-old girlfriend and an equally beautiful , self-satisfied 18-year-old mistress . 
tries too hard to be funny in a way that's too loud , too goofy and too short of an attention span . 
i didn't find much fascination in the swinging . what they're doing is a matter of plumbing arrangements and mind games , of no erotic or 

sensuous charge . but that they are doing it is thought-provoking . 
the acting is just fine , but there's not enough substance here to sustain interest for the full 90 minutes , especially with the weak payoff . 
after collateral damage , you might imagine that most every aggrieved father clichÈ has been unturned . but no . 
ultimately the , yes , snail-like pacing and lack of thematic resonance make the film more silly than scary , like some sort of martha stewart 

decorating program run amok . 
releasing a film with the word 'dog' in its title in january lends itself to easy jokes and insults , and snow dogs deserves every single one 

of them . 
tedious norwegian offering which somehow snagged an oscar nomination . 
it was a dark and stormy night . . . 
a dark-as-pitch comedy that frequently veers into corny sentimentality , probably would not improve much after a therapeutic zap of shock 

treatment . 
this sort of cute and cloying material is far from zhang's forte and it shows . 
bray is completely at sea ; with nothing but a savage garden music video on his resume , he has no clue about making a movie . 
freundlich's made [crudup] a suburban architect , and a cipher . 
a huge disappointment coming , as it does , from filmmakers and performers of this calibre
though it pretends to expose the life of male hustlers , it's exploitive without being insightful . 
aimed squarely at the least demanding of demographic groups : very small children who will be delighted simply to spend more time with familiar 

cartoon characters . 
what starts off as a satisfying kids flck becomes increasingly implausible as it races through contrived plot points . 
exhibits the shallow sensationalism characteristic of soap opera . . . more salacious telenovela than serious drama . 
seagal is painfully foolish in trying to hold onto what's left of his passe' chopsocky glory . 
even with harris's strong effort , the script gives him little to effectively probe lear's soul-stripping breakdown . 
the story is bogus and its characters tissue-thin . 
whereas the extremely competent hitman films such as pulp fiction and get shorty resonate a sardonic verve to their caustic purpose for 

existing , who is cletis tout ? is an inexpressible and drab wannabe looking for that exact niche . 
while american adobo has its heart ( and its palate ) in the right place , its brain is a little scattered -- ditsy , even . 
 . . . a confusing drudgery . 
imagine a film that begins as a seven rip-off , only to switch to a mix of the shining , the thing , and any naked teenagers horror flick from 

the 1980s . 
most of the dialogue made me want to pack raw dough in my ears . 
costner's warm-milk persona is just as ill-fitting as shadyac's perfunctory directing chops , and some of the more overtly silly dialogue would 

sink laurence olivier . 
it's coherent , well shot , and tartly acted , but it wears you down like a dinner guest showing off his doctorate . 
directed by kevin bray , whose crisp framing , edgy camera work , and wholesale ineptitude with acting , tone and pace very obviously mark him 

as a video helmer making his feature debut . 
turns a potentially interesting idea into an excruciating film school experience that plays better only for the film's publicists or for people 

who take as many drugs as the film's characters
robin williams departs from his fun friendly demeanor in exchange for a darker unnerving role . 
high crimes is a cinematic misdemeanor , a routine crime thriller remarkable only for its lack of logic and misuse of two fine actors , morgan 

freeman and ashley judd . 
set in a 1986 harlem that doesn't look much like anywhere in new york . 
the chocolate factory without charlie . 
long on twinkly-eyed close-ups and short on shame . 
hip-hop rarely comes alive as its own fire-breathing entity in this picture . 
a well-crafted letdown . 
a dull , somnambulant exercise in pretension whose pervasive quiet is broken by frequent outbursts of violence and noise . 
deserving of its critical backlash and more . 
boring and meandering . 
neither a rousing success nor a blinding embarrassment . still , it just sits there like a side dish no one ordered . 
the sum of all fears is remarkably fuddled about motives and context , which drains it of the dramatic substance that would shake us in our 

boots ( or cinema seats ) . 
the movie spends more time with schneider than with newcomer mcadams , even though her performance is more interesting ( and funnier ) than his 

. 
this low-rent -- and even lower-wit -- rip-off of the farrelly brothers' oeuvre gets way too mushy -- and in a relatively short amount of time 

. 
it recycles every clichÈ about gays in what is essentially an extended soap opera . 
i'm all for the mentally challenged getting their fair shot in the movie business , but surely it doesn't have to be as a collection of keening 

and self-mutilating sideshow geeks . 
may offend viewers not amused by the sick sense of humor . 
many of benjamins' elements feel like they've been patched in from an episode of miami vice . 
it aimlessly and unsuccessfully attempts to fuse at least three dull plots into one good one . 
most folks with a real stake in the american sexual landscape will find it either moderately amusing or just plain irrelevant . 
if you're not fans of the adventues of steve and terri , you should avoid this like the dreaded king brown snake . personally , i'd rather 

watch them on the animal planet . 
cherish is a dud -- a romantic comedy that's not the least bit romantic and only mildly funny . 
feels as if the inmates have actually taken over the asylum . 
all of the filmmakers' calculations can't rescue brown sugar from the curse of blandness . 
the movie's gloomy atmosphere is fascinating , though , even if the movie itself doesn't stand a ghost of a chance . 
 . . . post-september 11 , " the sum of all fears " seems more tacky and reprehensible , manipulating our collective fear without bestowing the 

subject with the intelligence or sincerity it unequivocally deserves . 
the exclamation point seems to be the only bit of glee you'll find in this dreary mess . 
no matter how you slice it , mark wahlberg and thandie newton are not hepburn and grant , two cinematic icons with chemistry galore . 
godard's ode to tackling life's wonderment is a rambling and incoherent manifesto about the vagueness of topical excess . . . in praise of love 

remains a ponderous and pretentious endeavor that's unfocused and tediously exasperating . 
humorless , self-conscious art drivel , made without a glimmer of intelligence or invention . 
the movie's progression into rambling incoherence gives new meaning to the phrase 'fatal script error . '
solondz may be convinced that he has something significant to say , but he isn't talking a talk that appeals to me . 
more tiring than anything . 
nelson's intentions are good , but the end result does no justice to the story itself . it's horribly depressing and not very well done . 
 . . . the efforts of its star , kline , to lend some dignity to a dumb story are for naught . 
a good-natured ensemble comedy that tries hard to make the most of a bumper cast , but never quite gets off the ground . 
isn't it a bit early in his career for director barry sonnenfeld to do a homage to himself ? and it's a lousy one at that . 
overly long and worshipful bio-doc . 
i'll go out on a limb . it isn't quite one of the worst movies of the year . it's just merely very bad . 
writer-director ritchie reduces wertmuller's social mores and politics to tiresome jargon . 
about amy's cuteness , amy's career success ( she's a best-selling writer of self-help books who can't help herself ) , and amy's neuroses when 

it comes to men . 
everything about girls can't swim , even its passages of sensitive observation , feels secondhand , familiar -- and not in a good way . 
feels aimless for much of its running time , until late in the film when a tidal wave of plot arrives , leaving questions in its wake . 
less than fresh . 
in my own very humble opinion , in praise of love lacks even the most fragmented charms i have found in almost all of his previous works . 
the script is too mainstream and the psychology too textbook to intrigue . 
muddled , simplistic and more than a little pretentious . 
meandering and glacially paced , and often just plain dull . 
a disaster of a drama , saved only by its winged assailants . 
a road trip that will get you thinking , 'are we there yet ? '
director elie chouraqui , who co-wrote the script , catches the chaotic horror of war , but why bother if you're going to subjugate truth to 

the tear-jerking demands of soap opera ? 
dong never pushes for insights beyond the superficial tensions of the dynamic he's dissecting , and the film settles too easily along the 

contours of expectation . 
if there was any doubt that peter o'fallon didn't have an original bone in his body , a rumor of angels should dispel it . 
an occasionally interesting but mostly repetitive look at a slice of counterculture that might be best forgotten . 
what could have been right at home as a nifty plot line in steven soderbergh's traffic fails to arrive at any satisfying destination . 
the movie is like scorsese's mean streets redone by someone who ignored it in favor of old 'juvenile delinquent' paperbacks with titles like 

leather warriors and switchblade sexpot . 
this pathetic junk is barely an hour long . nevertheless , it still seems endless . 
it isn't that stealing harvard is a horrible movieóif only it were that grand a failure ! it's just that it's so not-at-all-good . and i 

expect much more from a talent as outstanding as director bruce mcculloch . 
dolman confines himself to shtick and sentimentality -- the one bald and the other sloppy . 
is it possible for a documentary to be utterly entranced by its subject and still show virtually no understanding of it ? 
it's supposed to be a romantic comedy - it suffers from too much norma rae and not enough pretty woman . 
the leads are so unmemorable , despite several attempts at lengthy dialogue scenes , that one eventually resents having to inhale this gutter 

romancer's secondhand material . 
the script ? please . 
staggers between flaccid satire and what is supposed to be madcap farce . 
not that any of us should be complaining when a film clocks in around 90 minutes these days , but the plotting here leaves a lot to be desired 

. 
brainy , artistic and muted , almost to the point of suffocation . 
plays like the old disease-of-the-week small-screen melodramas . 
like life on the island , the movie grows boring despite the scenery . 
the truth about charlie is that it's a brazenly misguided project . 
caso vocÍ sinta necessidade de sair da sala antes do tÈrmino da proje??o , n?o se preocupe : ninguÈm lhe enviar· penas simbolizando covardia . 
displays the potential for a better movie than what bailly manages to deliver
so exaggerated and broad that it comes off as annoying rather than charming . 
an awkward hybrid of genres that just doesn't work . 
the latest vapid actor's exercise to appropriate the structure of arthur schnitzler's reigen . 
snipes is both a snore and utter tripe . 
ritchie's film is easier to swallow than wertmuller's polemical allegory , but it's self-defeatingly decorous . 
chalk it up as the worst kind of hubristic folly . 
it's the kind of under-inspired , overblown enterprise that gives hollywood sequels a bad name . 
rosenthal ( halloween ii ) seems to have forgotten everything he ever knew about generating suspense . 
even murphy's expert comic timing and famed charisma can't rescue this effort . 
rodriguez . . . was unable to reproduce the special spark between the characters that made the first film such a delight . 
a sleek advert for youthful anomie that never quite equals the sum of its pretensions . 
some body smacks of exhibitionism more than it does cathartic truth telling . 
this isn't a terrible film by any means , but it's also far from being a realized work . 
apparently , romantic comedy with a fresh point of view just doesn't figure in the present hollywood program . 
a lame comedy . 
depressingly thin and exhaustingly contrived . only masochistic moviegoers need apply . 
a movie that's held captive by mediocrity . not bad , but not all that good . bacon keeps things interesting , but don't go out of your way to 

pay full price . 
what's next ? rob schneider , dana carvey and sarah michelle gellar in the philadelphia story ? david spade as citizen kane ? 
can't seem to get anywhere near the story's center . 
the problem , amazingly enough , is the screenplay . 
it's a frankenstein-monster of a film that doesn't know what it wants to be . 
upper west sidey exercise in narcissism and self-congratulation disguised as a tribute . 
on its icy face , the new film is a subzero version of monsters , inc . , without the latter's imagination , visual charm or texture . 
i can't say this enough : this movie is about an adult male dressed in pink jammies . 
it's a mindless action flick with a twist -- far better suited to video-viewing than the multiplex . 
after a while , the only way for a reasonably intelligent person to get through the country bears is to ponder how a whole segment of pop-music 

history has been allowed to get wet , fuzzy and sticky . 
we get light showers of emotion a couple of times , but then -- strangely -- these wane to an inconsistent and ultimately unsatisfying drizzle 

. 
summer's far too fleeting to squander on offal like this . 
the film is grossly contradictory in conveying its social message , if indeed there is one . 
often lingers just as long on the irrelevant as on the engaging , which gradually turns what time is it there ? into how long is this movie ? 
too bad kramer couldn't make a guest appearance to liven things up . 
deuces wild is an encyclopedia of cliches that shoplifts shamelessly from farewell-to-innocence movies like the wanderers and a bronx tale 

without cribbing any of their intelligence . 
it's a barely tolerable slog over well-trod ground . 
epps has neither the charisma nor the natural affability that has made tucker a star . 
it's sweet . . . but just a little bit too precious at the start and a little too familiar at the end . 
a dull , dumb and derivative horror film . 
an awkwardly contrived exercise in magic realism . 
demme gets a lot of flavor and spice into his charade remake , but he can't disguise that he's spiffing up leftovers that aren't so substantial 

or fresh . 
this is a heartfelt story . . . it just isn't a very involving one . 
these self-styled athletes have banged their brains into the ground so frequently and furiously , their capacity to explain themselves has gone 

the same way as their natural instinct for self-preservation . 
the fact that the 'best part' of the movie comes from a 60-second homage to one of demme's good films doesn't bode well for the rest of it . 
richard pryor mined his personal horrors and came up with a treasure chest of material , but lawrence gives us mostly fool's gold . 
the band performances featured in drumline are red hot . . . [but] from a mere story point of view , the film's ice cold . 
 . . . built on the premise that middle-class arkansas consists of monster truck-loving good ol' boys and peroxide blond honeys whose worldly 

knowledge comes from tv reruns and supermarket tabloids . 
a laughable -- or rather , unlaughable -- excuse for a film . 
the sequel is everything the original was not : contrived , overblown and tie-in ready . 
like a grinning jack o' lantern , its apparent glee is derived from a lobotomy , having had all its vital essence scooped out and discarded . 
a sentimental hybrid that could benefit from the spice of specificity . 
 . . . familiar and predictable , and 4/5ths of it might as well have come from a xerox machine rather than ( writer-director ) franc . reyes' 

word processor . 
give shapiro , goldman , and bolado credit for good intentions , but there's nothing here that they couldn't have done in half an hour . 
it's so devoid of joy and energy it makes even jason x . . . look positively shakesperean by comparison . 
a little objectivity could have gone a long way . 
one of the worst films of 2002 . 
i believe silberling had the best intentions here , but he just doesn't have the restraint to fully realize them . 
plays like an unbalanced mixture of graphic combat footage and almost saccharine domestic interludes that are pure hollywood . 
mctiernan's remake may be lighter on its feet -- the sober-minded original was as graceful as a tap-dancing rhino -- but it is just as boring 

and as obvious . 
high crimes carries almost no organic intrigue as a government/ marine/legal mystery , and that's because the movie serves up all of that stuff 

, nearly subliminally , as the old-hat province of male intrigue . 
this movie is about the worst thing chan has done in the united states . 
the explosion essentially ruined -- or , rather , overpowered -- the fiction of the movie for me . 
this ludicrous film is predictable at every turn . 
an incredibly irritating comedy about thoroughly vacuous people . . . manages to embody the worst excesses of nouvelle vague without any of its 

sense of fun or energy . 
the film desperately sinks further and further into comedy futility . 
instead of a balanced film that explains the zeitgeist that is the x games , we get a cinematic postcard that's superficial and unrealized . 
the crassness of this reactionary thriller is matched only by the ridiculousness of its premise . 
i wish it would have just gone more over-the-top instead of trying to have it both ways . 
the superior plotline isn't quite enough to drag along the dead ( water ) weight of the other . 
the film doesn't really care about the thousands of americans who die hideously , it cares about how ryan meets his future wife and makes his 

start at the cia . 
adrift , bentley and hudson stare and sniffle , respectively , as ledger attempts , in vain , to prove that movie-star intensity can overcome 

bad hair design . 
after an hour and a half of wondering -- sometimes amusedly , sometimes impatiently -- just what this strenuously unconventional movie is 

supposed to be , you discover that the answer is as conventional as can be . 
'linklater fans , or pretentious types who want to appear avant-garde will suck up to this project . . . '
a woefully dull , redundant concept that bears more than a whiff of exploitation , despite iwai's vaunted empathy . 
screenwriter chris ver weil's directing debut is good-natured and never dull , but its virtues are small and easily overshadowed by its 

predictability . 
if you really want to understand what this story is really all about , you're far better served by the source material . 
it's mildly sentimental , unabashedly consumerist . . . studiously inoffensive and completely disposable . 
like its title character , esther kahn is unusual but unfortunately also irritating . 
the star who helped give a spark to " chasing amy " and " changing lanes " falls flat as thinking man cia agent jack ryan in this summer's new 

action film , " the sum of all fears . " 
a summary of the plot doesn't quite do justice to the awfulness of the movie , for that comes through all too painfully in the execution . 
every conceivable mistake a director could make in filming opera has been perpetrated here . 
snoots will no doubt rally to its cause , trotting out threadbare standbys like 'masterpiece' and 'triumph' and all that malarkey , but rarely 

does an established filmmaker so ardently waste viewers' time with a gobbler like this . 
[the film's] taste for " shock humor " will wear thin on all but those weaned on the comedy of tom green and the farrelly brothers . 
any enjoyment will be hinge from a personal threshold of watching sad but endearing characters do extremely unconventional things . 
if legendary shlockmeister ed wood had ever made a movie about a vampire , it probably would look a lot like this alarming production , adapted 

from anne rice's novel the vampire chronicles . 
hardly a nuanced portrait of a young woman's breakdown , the film nevertheless works up a few scares . 
interminably bleak , to say nothing of boring . 
things really get weird , though not particularly scary : the movie is all portent and no content . 
it's difficult to discern if this is a crazy work of disturbed genius or merely 90 minutes of post-adolescent electra rebellion . 
bogs down badly as we absorb jia's moody , bad-boy behavior which he portrays himself in a one-note performance . 
the camera whirls ! the camera twirls ! oh , look at that clever angle ! wow , a jump cut ! 
demme finally succeeds in diminishing his stature from oscar-winning master to lowly studio hack . 
the action scenes have all the suspense of a 20-car pileup , while the plot holes are big enough for a train car to drive through -- if kaos 

hadn't blown them all up . 
it almost feels as if the movie is more interested in entertaining itself than in amusing us . 
it puts washington , as honest working man john q . archibald , on a pedestal , then keeps lifting the pedestal higher . 
ultimately , the film amounts to being lectured to by tech-geeks , if you're up for that sort of thing . 
far more enjoyable than its predecessor . 
[gayton's script] telegraphs every discovery and layers on the gloss of convenience . 
full frontal , which opens today nationwide , could almost be classified as a movie-industry satire , but it lacks the generous inclusiveness 

that is the genre's definitive , if disingenuous , feature . 
a ragbag of cliches . 
this rough trade punch-and-judy act didn't play well then and it plays worse now . 
a reality-snubbing hodgepodge . 
the three leads produce adequate performances , but what's missing from this material is any depth of feeling . 
it's possible that something hip and transgressive was being attempted here that stubbornly refused to gel , but the result is more puzzling 

than unsettling . 
this painfully unfunny farce traffics in tired stereotypes and encumbers itself with complications . . . that have no bearing on the story . 
short and sweet , but also more than anything else slightÖ tadpole pulls back from the consequences of its own actions and revelations . 
has its moments , but it's pretty far from a treasure . 
what more can be expected from a college comedy that's target audience hasn't graduated from junior high school ? 
collateral damage offers formula payback and the big payoff , but the explosions tend to simply hit their marks , pyro-correctly . 
the plan to make enough into ëan inspiring tale of survival wrapped in the heart-pounding suspense of a stylish psychological thriller' has 

flopped as surely as a soufflÈ gone wrong . 
instead of letting the laughs come as they may , lawrence unleashes his trademark misogyny -- er , comedy -- like a human volcano or an 

overflowing septic tank , take your pick . 
you know that ten bucks you'd spend on a ticket ? just send it to cranky . we don't get paid enough to sit through crap like this . 
an even more predictable , cliche-ridden endeavor than its predecessor . 
the whole thing plays like a tired tyco ad . 
the film doesn't show enough of the creative process or even of what was created for the non-fan to figure out what makes wilco a big deal . 
the soupy end result has the odd distinction of being playful without being fun , too . 
no , i don't know why steven seagal is considered a star , nor why he keeps being cast in action films when none of them are ever any good or 

make any money . 
even by the intentionally low standards of frat-boy humor , sorority boys is a bowser . 
one well-timed explosion in a movie can be a knockout , but a hundred of them can be numbing . proof of this is ballistic : ecks vs . sever . 
halfway through , however , having sucked dry the undead action flick formula , blade ii mutates into a gross-out monster movie with effects 

that are more silly than scary . 
weighted down with slow , uninvolving storytelling and flat acting . 
we can't accuse kung pow for misfiring , since it is exactly what it wants to be : an atrociously , mind-numbingly , indescribably bad movie . 

unfortunately , we'd prefer a simple misfire . 
there isn't one moment in the film that surprises or delights . 
'wouldn't it be nice if all guys got a taste of what it's like on the other side of the bra ? '
the movie is essentially a series of fleetingly interesting actors' moments . 
most of the information has already appeared in one forum or another and , no matter how broomfield dresses it up , it tends to speculation , 

conspiracy theories or , at best , circumstantial evidence . 
this movie , a certain scene in particular , brought me uncomfortably close to losing my lunch . 
the secrets of time travel will have been discovered , indulged in and rejected as boring before i see this piece of crap again . 
smug , artificial , ill-constructed and fatally overlong . . . it never finds a consistent tone and lacks bite , degenerating into a pious , 

preachy soap opera . 
chelsea walls is a case of too many chefs fussing over too weak a recipe . 
every joke is repeated at least four times . every joke is repeated at least four times . every joke is repeated at least--annoying , isn't it 

? 
comes across as a fairly weak retooling . 
the lousy lead performances . . . keep the movie from ever reaching the comic heights it obviously desired . 
its and pieces of the hot chick are so hilarious , and schneider's performance is so fine , it's a real shame that so much of the movie -- 

again , as in the animal -- is a slapdash mess . 
[creates] the worst kind of mythologizing , the kind that sacrifices real heroism and abject suffering for melodrama . 
the movie resolutely avoids all the comic possibilities of its situation , and becomes one more dumb high school comedy about sex gags and prom 

dates . 
earnest and heartfelt but undernourished and plodding . 
a sugar-coated rocky whose valuable messages are forgotten 10 minutes after the last trombone honks . 
romanek keeps adding flourishes -- artsy fantasy sequences -- that simply feel wrong . they cheapen the overall effect . 
has all the complexity and realistic human behavior of an episode of general hospital . 
an acceptable way to pass a little over an hour with moviegoers ages 8-10 , but it's unlikely to inspire anything more than a visit to 

mcdonald's , let alone some savvy street activism . 
[allen's] been making piffle for a long while , and hollywood ending may be his way of saying that piffle is all that the airhead movie 

business deserves from him right now . 
an exercise in cynicism every bit as ugly as the shabby digital photography and muddy sound . 
mildly amusing . 
not good enough to pass for a litmus test of the generation gap and not bad enough to repulse any generation of its fans . 
the movie is silly beyond comprehension , and even if it weren't silly , it would still be beyond comprehension . 
watchable up until the point where the situations and the dialogue spin hopelessly out of control -- that is to say , when carol kane appears 

on the screen . 
the scriptwriters are no less a menace to society than the film's characters . 
fairly run-of-the-mill . 
merchant hasn't directed this movie so much as produced it -- like sausage . 
the film has a nearly terminal case of the cutes , and it's neither as funny nor as charming as it thinks it is . 
more a gunfest than a rock concert . 
it's a frightful vanity film that , no doubt , pays off what debt miramax felt they owed to benigni . 
a muddy psychological thriller rife with miscalculations . it makes me say the obvious : abandon all hope of a good movie ye who enter here . 
mildly entertaining . 
it's not original enough . 
a listless sci-fi comedy in which eddie murphy deploys two guises and elaborate futuristic sets to no particularly memorable effect . 
terrible . 
little more than a super-sized infomercial for the cable-sports channel and its summer x games . 
degenerates into hogwash . 
a generic bloodbath that often becomes laughably unbearable when it isn't merely offensive . 
julie davis is the kathie lee gifford of film directors , sadly proving once again ego doesn't always go hand in hand with talent . 
an unholy mess , driven by the pathetic idea that if you shoot something on crummy-looking videotape , it must be labelled 'hip' , 'innovative' 

and 'realistic' . 
the story's pathetic and the gags are puerile . 
 . curiously , super troopers suffers because it doesn't have enough vices to merit its 103-minute length . 
so bland and utterly forgettable that it might as well have been titled generic jennifer lopez romantic comedy . 
i was sent a copyof this film to review on dvd . for free . i still want my money back . 
it plods along methodically , somehow under the assumption that its " dead wife communicating from beyond the grave " framework is even 

remotely new or interesting . 
it's hard to believe that a relationship like holly and marina's could survive the hothouse emotions of teendom , and its longevity gets more 

inexplicable as the characterizations turn more crassly reductive . 
all too familiar . . . basically the sort of cautionary tale that was old when 'angels with dirty faces' appeared in 1938 . 
Öpassable enough for a shoot-out in the o . k . court house of life type of flick . strictly middle of the road . 
although purportedly a study in modern alienation , it's really little more than a particularly slanted , gay s/m fantasy , enervating and 

deadeningly drawn-out . 
after the first 10 minutes , which is worth seeing , the movie sinks into an abyss of clichÈs , depression and bad alternative music . 
no one can doubt the filmmakers' motives , but the guys still feels counterproductive . 
a very slow , uneventful ride around a pretty tattered old carousel . 
with little visible talent and no energy , colin hanks is in bad need of major acting lessons and maybe a little coffee . 
 " feardotcom " has the makings of an interesting meditation on the ethereal nature of the internet and the otherworldly energies it could 

channel , but it simply becomes a routine shocker . 
a meatballs for the bare-midriff generation . 
well-meaning to a fault , antwone fisher manages the dubious feat of turning one man's triumph of will into everyman's romance comedy . 
seemingly disgusted with the lazy material and the finished product's unshapely look , director fisher stevens inexplicably dips key moments 

from the film in waking life water colors . 
formula 51 promises a new kind of high but delivers the same old bad trip . 
everything that was right about blade is wrong in its sequel . 
a few energetic stunt sequences briefly enliven the film , but the wheezing terrorist subplot hasn't the stamina for the 100-minute running 

time , and the protagonists' bohemian boorishness mars the spirit of good clean fun . 
the film was produced by jerry bruckheimer and directed by joel schumacher , and reflects the worst of their shallow styles : wildly 

overproduced , inadequately motivated every step of the way and demographically targeted to please every one ( and no one ) . 
disney again ransacks its archives for a quick-buck sequel . 
 coarse , cliched and clunky , this trifling romantic comedy in which opposites attract for no better reason than that the screenplay demands 

it squanders the charms of stars hugh grant and sandra bullock . 
anyone who suffers through this film deserves , at the very least , a big box of consolation candy . 
how much you are moved by the emotional tumult of [fran?ois and michËle's] relationship depends a lot on how interesting and likable you find 

them . 
they presume their audience won't sit still for a sociology lesson , however entertainingly presented , so they trot out the conventional 

science-fiction elements of bug-eyed monsters and futuristic women in skimpy clothes . 
collapses after 30 minutes into a slap-happy series of adolescent violence . 
the following things are not at all entertaining : the bad sound , the lack of climax and , worst of all , watching seinfeld ( who is also one 

of the film's producers ) do everything he can to look like a good guy . 
attal's hang-ups surrounding infidelity are so old-fashioned and , dare i say , outdated , it's a wonder that he couldn't have brought 

something fresher to the proceedings simply by accident . 
obvious , obnoxious and didactic burlesque . 
the most surprising thing about this film is that they are actually releasing it into theaters . 
michele is a such a brainless flibbertigibbet that it's hard to take her spiritual quest at all seriously . 
ultimately , clarity matters , both in breaking codes and making movies . enigma lacks it . 
potty-mouthed enough for pg-13 , yet not as hilariously raunchy as south park , this strangely schizo cartoon seems suited neither to kids or 

adults . 
 . . . has its moments , but ultimately , its curmudgeon doesn't quite make the cut of being placed on any list of favorites . 
a distinctly minor effort that will be seen to better advantage on cable , especially considering its barely feature-length running time of one 

hour . 
most of the movie is so deadly dull that watching the proverbial paint dry would be a welcome improvement . 
in the end , tuck everlasting falls victim to that everlasting conundrum experienced by every human who ever lived : too much to do , too 

little time to do it in . 
rather less than the sum of its underventilated pËre-fils confrontations . 
mckay shows crushingly little curiosity about , or is ill-equipped to examine , the interior lives of the characters in his film , much less 

incorporate them into his narrative . 
plays like a series of vignettes -- clips of a film that are still looking for a common through-line . 
new yorkers always seem to find the oddest places to dwell . . . 
amid the shock and curiosity factors , the film is just a corny examination of a young actress trying to find her way . 
yes , spirited away is a triumph of imagination , but it's also a failure of storytelling . 
a characteristically engorged and sloppy coming-of-age movie . 
a somewhat disappointing and meandering saga . 
whenever you think you've seen the end of the movie , we cut to a new scene , which also appears to be the end . but , no , we get another 

scene , and then another . you begin to long for the end credits as the desert does for rain . 
an empty , ugly exercise in druggy trance-noir and trumped-up street credibility . 
the screenplay , co-written by director imogen kimmel , lacks the wit necessary to fully exploit the comic elements of the premise , making the 

proceedings more bizarre than actually amusing . 
the milieu is wholly unconvincing . . . and the histrionics reach a truly annoying pitch . 
unfunny comedy with a lot of static set ups , not much camera movement , and most of the scenes take place indoors in formal settings with 

motionless characters . 
each story is built on a potentially interesting idea , but the first two are ruined by amateurish writing and acting , while the third feels 

limited by its short running time . 
except for paymer as the boss who ultimately expresses empathy for bartleby's pain , the performances are so stylized as to be drained of human 

emotion . 
will no doubt delight plympton's legion of fans ; others may find 80 minutes of these shenanigans exhausting . 
the laughs are as rare as snake foo yung . 
for a film that celebrates radical , nonconformist values , what to do in case of fire ? lazily and glumly settles into a most traditional , 

reserved kind of filmmaking . 
knockaround guys plays like a student film by two guys who desperately want to be quentin tarantino when they grow up . but they lack their 

idol's energy and passion for detail . 
mattei so completely loses himself to the film's circular structure to ever offer any insightful discourse on , well , love in the time of 

money . 
it briefly flirts with player masochism , but the point of real interest -ñ audience sadism -- is evaded completely . 
holland lets things peter out midway , but it's notably better acted -- and far less crass - than some other recent efforts in the burgeoning 

genre of films about black urban professionals . 
for every articulate player , such as skateboarder tony hawk or bmx rider mat hoffman , are about a half dozen young turks angling to see how 

many times they can work the words " radical " or " suck " into a sentence . 
there's not a fresh idea at the core of this tale . 
an impenetrable and insufferable ball of pseudo-philosophic twaddle . 
it's unfortunate that wallace , who wrote gibson's braveheart as well as the recent pearl harbor , has such an irrepressible passion for sappy 

situations and dialogue . 
i liked the movie , but i know i would have liked it more if it had just gone that one step further . i'm left slightly disappointed that it 

didn't . 
dreary tale of middle-class angst
for a movie about the power of poetry and passion , there is precious little of either . 
[jackson and bledel] seem to have been picked not for their acting chops , but for their looks and appeal to the pre-teen crowd . 
lillard and cardellini earn their scooby snacks , but not anyone else . 
like schindler's list , the grey zone attempts to be grandiloquent , but ends up merely pretentious -- in a grisly sort of way . 
an unremittingly ugly movie to look at , listen to , and think about , it is quite possibly the sturdiest example yet of why the dv revolution 

has cheapened the artistry of making a film . 
[screenwriter] pimental took the farrelly brothers comedy and feminized it , but it is a rather poor imitation . 
it's kind of sad that so many people put so much time and energy into this turkey . 
friday after next is a lot more bluster than bite . 
its juxtaposition of overwrought existentialism and stomach-churning gore will have you forever on the verge of either cracking up or throwing 

up . 
a decidedly mixed bag . 
meandering and confusing . 
there are cheesy backdrops , ridiculous action sequences , and many tired jokes about men in heels . 
ice cube isn't quite out of ripe screwball ideas , but friday after next spreads them pretty thin . 
not everything in the film works , including its somewhat convenient ending . 
the characters , cast in impossibly contrived situations , are totally estranged from reality . 
everything else about high crimes is , like the military system of justice it portrays , tiresomely regimented . 
just dreadful . i don't blame eddie murphy but shouldn't owen wilson know a movie must have a story and a script ? 
sweet home alabama certainly won't be remembered as one of [witherspoon's] better films . 
hard as this may be to believe , here on earth , a surprisingly similar teen drama , was a better film . 
this is just lazy writing . even kids deserve better . 
the pretensions -- and disposable story -- sink the movie . and diesel isn't the actor to save it . 
bravo reveals the true intent of her film by carefully selecting interview subjects who will construct a portrait of castro so predominantly 

charitable it can only be seen as propaganda . 
 . . . a preachy parable stylized with a touch of john woo bullet ballet . 
frank capra played this story straight . but the 2002 film doesn't really believe in it , and breaks the mood with absurdly inappropriate 

'comedy' scenes . 
how about starting with a more original story instead of just slapping extreme humor and gross-out gags on top of the same old crap ? 
the problem is that for the most part , the film is deadly dull . 
handled correctly , wilde's play is a masterpiece of elegant wit and artifice . here , alas , it collapses like an overcooked soufflÈ . 
 " sorority boys " was funnier , and that movie was pretty bad . 
a bizarre piece of work , with premise and dialogue at the level of kids' television and plot threads as morose as teen pregnancy , rape and 

suspected murder
paul bettany is good at being the ultra-violent gangster wannabe , but the movie is certainly not number 1 . 
it's a gag that's worn a bit thin over the years , though don't ask still finds a few chuckles . 
an uplifting drama . . . what antwone fisher isn't , however , is original . 
often likable , but just as often it's meandering , low on energy , and too eager to be quirky at moments when a little old-fashioned 

storytelling would come in handy . 
certain to be distasteful to children and adults alike , eight crazy nights is a total misfire . 
elaborate special effects take centre screen , so that the human story is pushed to one side . 
showtime isn't particularly assaultive , but it can still make you feel that you never want to see another car chase , explosion or gunfight 

again . 
all the characters are clinically depressed and have abandoned their slim hopes and dreams . 
this tuxedo . . . should have been sent back to the tailor for some major alterations . 
i have no problem with " difficult " movies , or movies that ask the audience to meet them halfway and connect the dots instead of having 

things all spelled out . but first , you have to give the audience a reason to <b>want</b> to put for that effort , and " i
been there , done that . . . a thousand times already , and better . 
what's most offensive isn't the waste of a good cast , but the film's denial of sincere grief and mourning in favor of bogus spiritualism . 
sunk by way too much indulgence of scene-chewing , teeth-gnashing actorliness . 
fans of plympton's shorts may marginally enjoy the film , but it is doubtful this listless feature will win him any new viewers . 
barrels along at the start before becoming mired in sentimentality . 
none of this sounds promising and , indeed , the first half of sorority boys is as appalling as any 'comedy' to ever spill from a projector's 

lens . 
the kind of movie that leaves vague impressions and a nasty aftertaste but little clear memory of its operational mechanics . 
'punch-drunk love is so convinced of its own brilliance that , if it were a person , you'd want to smash its face in . '
at once overly old-fashioned in its sudsy plotting and heavy-handed in its effort to modernize it with encomia to diversity and tolerance . 
the trashy teen-sleaze equivalent of showgirls . 
while the production details are lavish , film has little insight into the historical period and its artists , particularly in how sand 

developed a notorious reputation . 
a crass and insulting homage to great films like some like it hot and the john wayne classics . 
what's the most positive thing that can be said about the new rob schneider vehicle ? well , it's not as pathetic as the animal . 
with all the sympathy , empathy and pity fogging up the screen . . . his secret life enters the land of unintentional melodrama and tiresome 

love triangles . 
the problematic characters and overly convenient plot twists foul up shum's good intentions . 
what 'blade runner' would've looked like as a low-budget series on a uhf channel . 
doesn't add up to much . 
has all the values of a straight-to-video movie , but because it has a bigger-name cast , it gets a full theatrical release . 
with its lackadaisical plotting and mindless action , all about the benjamins evokes the bottom tier of blaxploitation flicks from the 1970s . 
it never quite makes it to the boiling point , but manages to sustain a good simmer for most of its running time . 
loud , silly , stupid and pointless . 
mandel holland's direction is uninspired , and his scripting unsurprising , but the performances by phifer and black are ultimately winning . 

you'll find yourself wishing that you and they were in another movie . 
a yawn-provoking little farm melodrama . 
did no one on the set have a sense of humor , or did they not have the nerve to speak up ? 
crummy
seriously , rent the disney version . 
as david letterman and the onion have proven , the worst of tragedies can be fertile sources of humor , but lawrence has only a fleeting grasp 

of how to develop them . 
like its parade of predecessors , this halloween is a gory slash-fest . it can't escape its past , and it doesn't want to . 
 " abandon " will leave you wanting to abandon the theater . 
problem is , we have no idea what in creation is going on . 
a live-action cartoon , a fast-moving and cheerfully simplistic 88 minutes of exaggerated action put together with the preteen boy in mind . 
a loquacious and dreary piece of business . 
what the audience feels is exhaustion , from watching a movie that is dark ( dark green , to be exact ) , sour , bloody and mean . 
director hoffman , his writer and kline's agent should serve detention
dodgy mixture of cutesy romance , dark satire and murder mystery . 
meticulously mounted , exasperatingly well-behaved film , which ticks off kahlo's lifetime milestones with the dutiful precision of a tax 

accountant . 
time of favor could have given audiences the time of day by concentrating on the elements of a revealing alienation among a culture of people 

who sadly are at hostile odds with one another through recklessness and retaliation . 
i'm not sure which will take longer to heal : the welt on johnny knoxville's stomach from a riot-control projectile or my own tortured psyche . 
while serving sara does have a long way to go before it reaches the level of crudity in the latest austin powers extravaganza , there's nothing 

here to match that movie's intermittent moments of inspiration . 
i'm not sure which is worse : the poor acting by the ensemble cast , the flat dialogue by vincent r . nebrida or the gutless direction by 

laurice guillen . 
the only reason you should see this movie is if you have a case of masochism and an hour and a half to blow . 
whatever about warning kids about the dangers of ouija boards , someone should dispense the same advice to film directors . 
as with so many merchandised-to-the-max movies of this type , more time appears to have gone into recruiting the right bands for the playlist 

and the costuming of the stars than into the script , which has a handful of smart jokes and not much else . 
the irwins' scenes are fascinating ; the movie as a whole is cheap junk and an insult to their death-defying efforts . 
if routine action and jokes like this are your cup of tea , then pay your $8 and get ready for the big shear . this is one baaaaaaaaad movie . 
a man leaving the screening said the film was better than saving private ryan . he may have meant the internet short saving ryan's privates . 

but windtalkers doesn't beat that one , either . 
may puzzle his most ardent fans . 
starts as a tart little lemon drop of a movie and ends up as a bitter pill . 
we never feel anything for these characters , and as a result the film is basically just a curiosity . 
those unfamiliar with mormon traditions may find the singles ward occasionally bewildering . 
ritchie may not have a novel thought in his head , but he knows how to pose madonna . 
the story , touching though it is , does not quite have enough emotional resonance or variety of incident to sustain a feature , and even at 85 

minutes it feels a bit long . 
feels like the work of an artist who is simply tired -- of fighting the same fights , of putting the weight of the world on his shoulders , of 

playing with narrative form . 
while you have to admit it's semi-amusing to watch robert deniro belt out " when you're a jet , you're a jet all the way , " it's equally 

distasteful to watch him sing the lyrics to " tonight . " 
an opportunity missed . 
the whole mess boils down to a transparently hypocritical work that feels as though it's trying to set the women's liberation movement back 20 

years . 
' . . . the cast portrays their cartoon counterparts well . . . but quite frankly , scoob and shag don't eat enough during the film . '
more of the same old garbage hollywood has been trying to pass off as acceptable teen entertainment for some time now . 
tv skit-com material fervently deposited on the big screen . 
[johnnie to and wai ka fai are] sure to find an enthusiastic audience among american action-adventure buffs , but the film's interests may be 

too narrow to attract crossover viewers . 
if there was ever a movie where the upbeat ending feels like a copout , this is the one . 
it's as sorry a mess as its director's diabolical debut , mad cows . 
any attempts at nuance given by the capable cast is drowned out by director jon purdy's sledgehammer sap . 
its audacious ambitions sabotaged by pomposity , steven soderbergh's space opera emerges as a numbingly dull experience . 
despite some strong performances , never rises above the level of a telanovela . 
this is a picture that maik , the firebrand turned savvy ad man , would be envious of : it hijacks the heat of revolution and turns it into a 

sales tool . 
feels slight , as if it were an extended short , albeit one made by the smartest kids in class . 
unspeakable , of course , barely begins to describe the plot and its complications . vulgar is too optimistic a title . 
the actors pull out all the stops in nearly every scene , but to diminishing effect . the characters never change . 
if the last man were the last movie left on earth , there would be a toss-up between presiding over the end of cinema as we know it and another 

night of delightful hand shadows . 
welles groupie/scholar peter bogdanovich took a long time to do it , but he's finally provided his own broadside at publishing giant william 

randolph hearst . 
makes the same mistake as the music industry it criticizes , becoming so slick and watered-down it almost loses what made you love it in the 

first place . 
even as i valiantly struggled to remain interested , or at least conscious , i could feel my eyelids . . . getting . . . very . . . heavy . . . 
a bad movie that happened to good actors . 
wishy-washy . 
boasts eye-catching art direction but has a forcefully quirky tone that quickly wears out its limited welcome . 
screenwriter dan schneider and director shawn levy substitute volume and primary colors for humor and bite . 
oversexed , at times overwrought comedy/drama that offers little insight into the experience of being forty , female and single . 
that such a horrible movie could have sprung from such a great one is one of the year's worst cinematic tragedies . 
it all starts to smack of a hallmark hall of fame , with a few four letter words thrown in that are generally not heard on television . 
rarely has a film's title served such dire warning . 
if you saw benigni's pinocchio at a public park , you'd grab your kids and run and then probably call the police . 
the animation is competent , and some of the gags are quite funny , but jonah . . . never shakes the oppressive , morally superior good-for-you 

quality that almost automatically accompanies didactic entertainment . 
the pace of the film is very slow ( for obvious reasons ) and that too becomes off-putting . 
mr . wollter and ms . seldhal give strong and convincing performances , but neither reaches into the deepest recesses of the character to 

unearth the quaking essence of passion , grief and fear . 
shafer's feature doesn't offer much in terms of plot or acting . 
in his role of observer of the scene , lawrence sounds whiny and defensive , as if his life-altering experiences made him bitter and less 

mature . 
[t]he ideas of revolution #9 are more compelling than the execution
the film didn't convince me that calvin jr . 's barbershop represents some sort of beacon of hope in the middle of chicago's south side . 
what happens when something goes bump in the night and nobody cares ? 
despite some comic sparks , welcome to collinwood never catches fire . 
director george hickenlooper has had some success with documentaries , but here his sense of story and his juvenile camera movements smack of a 

film school undergrad , and his maudlin ending might not have gotten him into film school in the first place . 
shows moments of promise but ultimately succumbs to cliches and pat storytelling . 
even accepting this in the right frame of mind can only provide it with so much leniency . 
some body is a shaky , uncertain film that nevertheless touches a few raw nerves . 
all the small moments and flashbacks don't add up to much more than trite observations on the human condition . 
[a] stale retread of the '53 original . 
one thing's for sureóif george romero had directed this movie , it wouldn't have taken the protagonists a full hour to determine that in order 

to kill a zombie you must shoot it in the head . 
for dance completists only . 
one of the worst movies of the year . 
spreads itself too thin , leaving these actors , as well as the members of the commune , short of profound characterizations
it wouldn't matter so much that this arrogant richard pryor wannabe's routine is offensive , puerile and unimaginatively foul-mouthed if it was 

at least funny . 
the locale . . . remains far more interesting than the story at hand . 
yo , it's the days of our lives meets electric boogaloo . 
inconsequential road-and-buddy pic . 
i liked the original short story but this movie , even at an hour and twenty-some minutes , it's too long and it goes nowhere . 
this little film is so slovenly done , so primitive in technique , that it can't really be called animation . 
makes 98 minutes feel like three hours . 
hawke's film , a boring , pretentious waste of nearly two hours , doesn't tell you anything except that the chelsea hotel today is populated by 

whiny , pathetic , starving and untalented artistes . 
aspires to the cracked lunacy of the adventures of buckaroo banzai , but thanks to an astonishingly witless script ends up more like the 

adventures of ford fairlane . 
real-life strongman ahola lacks the charisma and ability to carry the film on his admittedly broad shoulders . 
the title , alone , should scare any sane person away . 
low comedy doesn't come much lower . 
appropriately cynical social commentary aside , #9 never quite ignites . 
it's crap on a leash--far too polite to scale the lunatic heights of joe dante's similarly styled gremlins . 
one of the most depressing movie-going experiences i can think of is to sit through about 90 minutes of a so-called 'comedy' and not laugh once 

. 
this is the kind of movie where the big scene is a man shot out of a cannon into a vat of ice cream . 
let's face it -- there aren't many reasons anyone would want to see crossroads if they're not big fans of teen pop kitten britney spears . 
a loud , brash and mainly unfunny high school comedy . 
an exceptionally dreary and overwrought bit of work , every bit as imperious as katzenberg's the prince of egypt from 1998 . 
insufferably naive . 
the movie is so resolutely cobbled together out of older movies that it even uses a totally unnecessary prologue , just because it seems 

obligatory . 
the movie's vision of a white american zealously spreading a puritanical brand of christianity to south seas islanders is one only a true 

believer could relish . 
maid in manhattan proves that it's easier to change the sheets than to change hackneyed concepts when it comes to dreaming up romantic comedies 

. 
a fairly harmless but ultimately lifeless feature-length afterschool special . 
i can't remember the last time i saw a movie where i wanted so badly for the protagonist to fail . 
ill-considered , unholy hokum . 
amazingly lame . 
 . . . the whole thing succeeded only in making me groggy . 
like most of jaglom's films , some of it is honestly affecting , but more of it seems contrived and secondhand . 
one long , numbing action sequence made up mostly of routine stuff yuen has given us before . 
forgettable , if good-hearted , movie . 
the film's most improbable feat ? it didn't go straight to video . 
 . . . about as exciting to watch as two last-place basketball teams playing one another on the final day of the season . 
the chateau . . . is less concerned with cultural and political issues than doting on its eccentric characters . 
cruel and inhuman cinematic punishment . . . simultaneously degrades its characters , its stars and its audience . 
it's not too fast and not too slow . it's not too racy and it's not too offensive . it's not too much of anything . 
the great pity is that those responsible didn't cut their losses ñ and ours ñ and retitle it the adventures of direct-to-video nash , and 

send it to its proper home . 
about as original as a gangster sweating bullets while worrying about a contract on his life . 
an empty shell of an epic rather than the real deal . 
we could have expected a little more human being , and a little less product . 
instead of using george and lucy's most obvious differences to ignite sparks , lawrence desperately looks elsewhere , seizing on george's 

haplessness and lucy's personality tics . 
whether quitting will prove absorbing to american audiences is debatable . 
becomes a bit of a mishmash : a tearjerker that doesn't and a thriller that won't . 
family togetherness takes a back seat to inter-family rivalry and workplace ambition&#133 ; whole subplots have no explanation or even plot 

relevance . 
grant isn't cary and bullock isn't katherine . 
like a fish that's lived too long , austin powers in goldmember has some unnecessary parts and is kinda wrong in places . 
two tedious acts light on great scares and a good surprise ending . 
shyamalan should stop trying to please his mom . 
the entire movie is in need of a scented bath . 
i'm sorry to say that this should seal the deal - arnold is not , nor will he be , back . 
the story of trouble every day . . . is so sketchy it amounts to little more than preliminary notes for a science-fiction horror film , and the 

movie's fragmentary narrative style makes piecing the story together frustrating difficult . 
a movie to forget
for all of its insights into the dream world of teen life , and its electronic expression through cyber culture , the film gives no quarter to 

anyone seeking to pull a cohesive story out of its 2 1/2-hour running time . 
enough is not a bad movie , just mediocre . the performances are so overstated , the effect comes off as self-parody . 
it looks good , but it is essentially empty . 
the film never finds its tone and several scenes run too long . 
the idea is more interesting than the screenplay , which lags badly in the middle and lurches between not-very-funny comedy , unconvincing 

dramatics and some last-minute action strongly reminiscent of run lola run . 
van wilder has a built-in audience , but only among those who are drying out from spring break and are still unconcerned about what they ingest 

. 
a complete waste of time . 
it's hard to believe that something so short could be so flabby . 
do we really need another film that praises female self-sacrifice ? 
the major problem with windtalkers is that the bulk of the movie centers on the wrong character . 
tennessee williams by way of oprah's book club . 
so verbally flatfooted and so emotionally predictable or bland that it plays like the standard made-for-tv movie . 
the entire point of a shaggy dog story , of course , is that it goes nowhere , and this is classic nowheresville in every sense . 
stale and clichÈd to a fault . 
this film is too busy hitting all of its assigned marks to take on any life of its own . 
watching junk like this induces a kind of abstract guilt , as if you were paying dues for good books unread , fine music never heard . 
the script feels as if it started to explore the obvious voyeuristic potential of 'hypertime' but then backed off when the producers saw the 

grosses for spy kids . 
starts off witty and sophisticated and you want to love it -- but filmmaker yvan attal quickly writes himself into a corner . 
some like it hot on the hardwood proves once again that a man in drag is not in and of himself funny . 
unfortunately , contrived plotting , stereotyped characters and woo's over-the-top instincts as a director undermine the moral dilemma at the 

movie's heart . 
witless and utterly pointless . 
when 'science fiction' takes advantage of the fact that its intended audience hasn't yet had much science , it does a disservice to the 

audience and to the genre . 
show me the mugging . 
represents something very close to the nadir of the thriller/horror genre . 
visually sumptuous but intellectually stultifying . 
as a feature-length film , it wears out its welcome as tryingly as the title character . 
a guilty pleasure at best , and not worth seeing unless you want to laugh at it . 
a sleep-inducing thriller with a single twist that everyone except the characters in it can see coming a mile away . 
with a " spy kids " sequel opening next week , why bother with a contemptible imitator starring a " snl " has-been acting like an 8-year-old 

channeling roberto benigni ? 
it's just rather leaden and dull . 
lacks the visual flair and bouncing bravado that characterizes better hip-hop clips and is content to recycle images and characters that were 

already tired 10 years ago . 
'pocas ideas interesantes , un final pseudo mÌstico que no corresponde al tono general del filme y que deja una sensaciÛn de inconformidad que 

hace pensar m·s de una vez si vale la pena ir a la taquilla y reclamar el precio del boleto . '
statham employs an accent that i think is supposed to be an attempt at hardass american but sometimes just lapses into unhidden british . 
instead of trying to bust some blondes , [diggs] should be probing why a guy with his talent ended up in a movie this bad . 
initial strangeness inexorably gives way to rote sentimentality and mystical tenderness becomes narrative expedience . 
de ayala is required to supply too much of the energy in a film that is , overall , far too staid for its subject matter . 
dismally dull sci-fi comedy . 
there's surely something wrong with a comedy where the only belly laughs come from the selection of outtakes tacked onto the end credits . 
when one hears harry shearer is going to make his debut as a film director , one would hope for the best
the leads we are given here are simply too bland to be interesting . 
[toback's] fondness for fancy split-screen , stuttering editing and pompous references to wittgenstein and kirkegaard . . . blends uneasily 

with the titillating material . 
adam sandler's 8 crazy nights is 75 wasted minutes of sandler as the voice-over hero in columbia pictures' perverse idea of an animated holiday 

movie . 
essentially " fatal attraction " remade for viewers who were in diapers when the original was released in 1987 . . . . this story gets sillier 

, not scarier , as it goes along . . . 
even a hardened voyeur would require the patience of job to get through this interminable , shapeless documentary about the swinging subculture 

. 
the film's hero is a bore and his innocence soon becomes a questionable kind of inexcusable dumb innocence . 
a singularly off-putting romantic comedy . 
this is an exercise not in biography but in hero worship . 
it all comes down to whether you can tolerate leon barlow . i can't . 
in the spirit of the season , i assign one bright shining star to roberto benigni's pinocchio -- but i guarantee that no wise men will be 

following after it . 
check your brain and your secret agent decoder ring at the door because you don't want to think too much about what's going on . the movie does 

has some entertainment value - how much depends on how well you like chris rock . 
a movie that seems motivated more by a desire to match mortarboards with dead poets society and good will hunting than by its own story . 
a culture clash comedy only half as clever as it thinks it is . 
the logic of it all will be greek to anyone not predisposed to the movie's rude and crude humor . 
as self-aware movies go , who is cletis tout ? is clever enough , though thin writing proves its undoing . 
starts out strongly before quickly losing its focus , point and purpose in a mess of mixed messages , over-blown drama and bruce willis with a 

scar . 
 . . . a fascinating curiosity piece -- fascinating , that is , for about ten minutes . after that it becomes long and tedious like a classroom 

play in a college history course . 
director jay russell weighs down his capricious fairy-tale with heavy sentiment and lightweight meaning . 
there are many things that solid acting can do for a movie , but crafting something promising from a mediocre screenplay is not one of them . 
its screenplay serves as auto-critique , and its clumsiness as its own most damning censure . 
at times , it actually hurts to watch . 
nemesis suffers from a paunchy midsection , several plodding action sequences and a wickedly undramatic central theme . 
the jokes are telegraphed so far in advance they must have been lost in the mail . 
[tries] to parody a genre that's already a joke in the united states . the movie is the equivalent of french hip-hop , which also seems to play 

on a 10-year delay . 
a beyond-lame satire , teddy bears' picnic ranks among the most pitiful directing debuts by an esteemed writer-actor . 
long before it's over , you'll be thinking of 51 ways to leave this loser . 
i've never seen ( a remake ) do anything as stomach-turning as the way adam sandler's new movie rapes , pillages and incinerates frank capra's 

classic . . . 
hollywood's answer to an air ball . 
and people make fun of me for liking showgirls</> . 
such a wildly uneven hit-and-miss enterprise , you can't help suspecting that it was improvised on a day-to-day basis during production . 
a weird little movie that's amusing enough while you watch it , offering fine acting moments and pungent insights into modern l . a . 's show-

biz and media subcultures . but it doesn't leave you with much . 
i'm convinced i could keep a family of five blind , crippled , amish people alive in this situation better than these british soldiers do at 

keeping themselves kicking . 
like mike is a slight and uninventive movie : like the exalted michael jordan referred to in the title , many can aspire but none can equal . 
there is nothing funny in this every-joke-has- been-told-a- thousand-times- before movie . 
always destined to be measured against anthony asquith's acclaimed 1952 screen adaptation . 
this is standard crime drama fare . . . instantly forgettable and thoroughly dull . 
there's some outrageously creative action in the transporter . . . [b]ut by the time frank parachutes down onto a moving truck , it's just 

another cartoon with an unstoppable superman . 
one of those based-on-truth stories that persuades you , with every scene , that it could never really have happened this way . 
from its nauseating spinning credits sequence to a very talented but underutilized supporting cast , bartleby squanders as much as it gives out 

. 
yet another genre exercise , gangster no . 1 is as generic as its title . 
despite the holes in the story and the somewhat predictable plot , moments of the movie caused me to jump in my chair . . . 
there's an admirable rigor to jimmy's relentless anger , and to the script's refusal of a happy ending , but as those monologues stretch on and 

on , you realize there's no place for this story to go but down . 
once again , the intelligence of gay audiences has been grossly underestimated , and a meaty plot and well-developed characters have been 

sacrificed for skin and flash that barely fizzle . 
a lightweight , uneven action comedy that freely mingles french , japanese and hollywood cultures . 
[a] slummer . 
such a fine idea for a film , and such a stultifying , lifeless execution . 
[allen's] best works understand why snobbery is a better satiric target than middle-america diversions could ever be . 
this overlong infomercial , due out on video before month's end , is tepid and tedious . 
an ambitious , guilt-suffused melodrama crippled by poor casting . 
rarely has sex on screen been so aggressively anti-erotic . 
a dull , inconsistent , dishonest female bonding picture . 
so much about the film is loopy and ludicrous . . . that it could have been a hoot in a bad-movie way if the laborious pacing and endless 

exposition had been tightened . 
a disappointment for a movie that should have been the ultimate imax trip . 
does little to elaborate the conceit of setting this blood-soaked tragedy of murderous ambition in the era of richard nixon . 
this sade is hardly a perverse , dangerous libertine and agitator -- which would have made for better drama . he's just a sad aristocrat in 

tattered finery , and the film seems as deflated as he does . 
the film's needlessly opaque intro takes its doe-eyed crudup out of pre-9/11 new york and onto a cross-country road trip of the homeric kind . 
it's as if a bored cage spent the duration of the film's shooting schedule waiting to scream : " got aids yet ? " 
in a strange way , egoyan has done too much . he's worked too hard on this movie . 
the film has the thrown-together feel of a summer-camp talent show : hastily written , underrehearsed , arbitrarily plotted and filled with 

crude humor and vulgar innuendo . 
the last three narcissists left on earth compete for each others' affections . 
a clash between the artificial structure of the story and the more contemporary , naturalistic tone of the film . . . 
[a] poorly executed comedy . 
the movie's messages are quite admirable , but the story is just too clichÈd and too often strains credulity . 
what we have here isn't a disaster , exactly , but a very handsomely produced let-down . 
the script was reportedly rewritten a dozen times -- either 11 times too many or else too few . 
a shoddy male hip hop fantasy filled with guns , expensive cars , lots of naked women and rocawear clothing . 
to the filmmakers , ivan is a prince of a fellow , but he comes across as shallow and glib though not mean-spirited , and there's no indication 

that he's been responsible for putting together any movies of particular value or merit . 
this is a movie filled with unlikable , spiteful idiots ; whether or not their friendship is salvaged makes no difference in the least . 
it's as if allen , at 66 , has stopped challenging himself . 
scotland , pa is entirely too straight-faced to transcend its clever concept . 
a movie that the less charitable might describe as a castrated cross between highlander and lolita . 
not only does leblanc make one spectacularly ugly-looking broad , but he appears miserable throughout as he swaggers through his scenes . 
there's little to recommend snow dogs , unless one considers cliched dialogue and perverse escapism a source of high hilarity . 
it's deep-sixed by a compulsion to catalog every bodily fluids gag in there's something about mary and devise a parallel clone-gag . 
the film rehashes several old themes and is capped with pointless extremes -- it's insanely violent and very graphic . 
sorority boys , which is as bad at it is cruel , takes every potential laugh and stiletto-stomps the life out of it . 
here the love scenes all end in someone screaming . maybe there's a metaphor here , but figuring it out wouldn't make trouble every day any 

better . 
this is the first film i've ever seen that had no obvious directing involved . 
fans of so-bad-they're-good cinema may find some fun in this jumbled mess . 
weiss and speck never make a convincing case for the relevance of these two 20th-century footnotes . 
sheridan is painfully bad , a fourth-rate jim carrey who doesn't understand the difference between dumb fun and just plain dumb . 
presents nothing special and , until the final act , nothing overtly disagreeable . 
the most excruciating 86 minutes one might sit through this summer that do not involve a dentist drill . 
was that movie nothing more than a tepid exercise in trotting out a formula that worked five years ago but has since lost its fizz ? 
it goes on for too long and bogs down in a surfeit of characters and unnecessary subplots . 
it's absolutely amazing how first-time director kevin donovan managed to find something new to add to the canon of chan . make chan's action 

sequences boring . 
you . . . get a sense of good intentions derailed by a failure to seek and strike just the right tone . 
'in this poor remake of such a well loved classic , parker exposes the limitations of his skill and the basic flaws in his vision . '
it's the movie equivalent of a sweaty old guy in a rain coat shopping for cheap porn . 
the film's final hour , where nearly all the previous unseen material resides , is unconvincing soap opera that tornatore was right to cut . 
the movie does such an excellent job of critiquing itself at every faltering half-step of its development that criticizing feels more like 

commiserating . 
i found it slow , predictable and not very amusing . 
director yu seems far more interested in gross-out humor than in showing us well-thought stunts or a car chase that we haven't seen 10 , 000 

times . 
viewers will need all the luck they can muster just figuring out who's who in this pretentious mess . 
a pint-sized 'goodfellas' designed to appeal to the younger set , it's not a very good movie in any objective sense , but it does mostly hold 

one's interest . 
get out your pooper-scoopers . 
while the material is slight , the movie is better than you might think . 
it's definitely not made for kids or their parents , for that matter , and i think even fans of sandler's comic taste may find it uninteresting 

. 
sheridan seems terrified of the book's irreverent energy , and scotches most of its Èlan , humor , bile , and irony . 
more busy than exciting , more frantic than involving , more chaotic than entertaining . 
there are more shots of children smiling for the camera than typical documentary footage which hurts the overall impact of the film . it's 

makes a better travelogue than movie . 
 . . . really horrible drek . 
it's as if solondz had two ideas for two movies , couldn't really figure out how to flesh either out , so he just slopped ëem together here . 
the fourth in a series that i'll bet most parents had thought --hoped ! -- was a fad that had long since vanished . 
it's a long way from orwell's dark , intelligent warning cry [1984] to the empty stud knockabout of equilibrium , and what once was conviction 

is now affectation . 
its premise is smart , but the execution is pretty weary . 
the holiday message of the 37-minute santa vs . the snowman leaves a lot to be desired . 
more precious than perspicacious
if you saw it on tv , you'd probably turn it off , convinced that you had already seen that movie . 
[t]he script isn't up to the level of the direction , nor are the uneven performances by the cast members , who seem bound and determined to 

duplicate bela lugosi's now-cliched vampire accent . 
if this is cinema , i pledge allegiance to cagney and lacey . 
enigma looks great , has solid acting and a neat premise . yet why it fails is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma . 
most of the characters come off as pantomimesque sterotypes . 
starts promisingly but disintegrates into a dreary , humorless soap opera . 
while there's likely very little crossover appeal to those without much interest in the elizabethans ( as well as rank frustration from those 

in the know about rubbo's dumbed-down tactics ) , much ado about something is an amicable endeavor . 
it's actually too sincere -- the crime movie equivalent of a chick flick . 
most of the film feels conceived and shot on the fly -- like between lunch breaks for shearer's radio show and his simpson voice-overs . 
perry's good and his is an interesting character , but " serving sara " hasn't much more to serve than silly fluff . nor is it a romantic 

comedy . 
culkin turns his character into what is basically an anti-harry potter -- right down to the gryffindor scarf . 
memorable for a peculiar malaise that renders its tension flaccid and , by extension , its surprises limp and its resolutions ritual . 
it's a documentary that says that the alternate sexuality meant to set you free may require so much relationship maintenance that celibacy can 

start looking good . 
in the not-too-distant future , movies like ghost ship will be used as analgesic balm for overstimulated minds . right now , they're merely 

signposts marking the slow , lingering death of imagination . 
an intriguing near-miss . 
the movie's biggest shocks come from seeing former nymphette juliette lewis playing a salt-of-the-earth mommy named minnie and watching slim 

travel incognito in a ridiculous wig no respectable halloween costume shop would ever try to sell . 
like most movies about the pitfalls of bad behavior . . . circuit gets drawn into the party . 
it appears as if even the filmmakers didn't know what kind of movie they were making . 
beneath the uncanny , inevitable and seemingly shrewd facade of movie-biz farce . . . lies a plot cobbled together from largely flat and 

uncreative moments . 
snipes relies too much on a scorchingly plotted dramatic scenario for its own good . 
piccoli's performance is amazing , yes , but the symbols of loss and denial and life-at-arm's-length in the film seem irritatingly transparent 

. 
starts out mediocre , spirals downward , and thuds to the bottom of the pool with an utterly incompetent conclusion . 
nicolas cage isn't the first actor to lead a group of talented friends astray , and this movie won't create a ruffle in what is already an 

erratic career . 
it lacks the compassion , good-natured humor and the level of insight that made [eyre's] first film something of a sleeper success . 
the result is good gossip , entertainingly delivered , yet with a distinctly musty odour , its expiry date long gone . 
a sustained fest of self-congratulation between actor and director that leaves scant place for the viewer . 
all analyze that proves is that there is really only one movie's worth of decent gags to be gleaned from the premise . 
green ruins every single scene he's in , and the film , while it's not completely wreaked , is seriously compromised by that . 
there's not a comedic moment in this romantic comedy . 
the story is predictable , the jokes are typical sandler fare , and the romance with ryder is puzzling . 
wallace directs with such patronising reverence , it turns the stomach . 
resurrection has the dubious distinction of being a really bad imitation of the really bad blair witch project . 
poor ben bratt couldn't find stardom if mapquest emailed him point-to-point driving directions . 
pretend like your sat scores are below 120 and you might not notice the flaws . 
unlike trey parker , sandler doesn't understand that the idea of exploiting molestation for laughs is funny , not actually exploiting it 

yourself . 
a fake street drama that keeps telling you things instead of showing them . 
an empty , purposeless exercise . 
earnest and tentative even when it aims to shock . 
haneke's script ( from elfriede jelinek's novel ) is contrived , unmotivated , and psychologically unpersuasive , with an inconclusive ending . 
a sometimes incisive and sensitive portrait that is undercut by its awkward structure and a final veering toward melodrama . 
those 24-and-unders looking for their own caddyshack to adopt as a generational signpost may have to keep on looking . 
a distinctly mixed bag , the occasional bursts of sharp writing alternating with lots of sloppiness and the obligatory moments of sentimental 

ooze . 
what begins brightly gets bogged down over 140 minutes . 
ultimately , jane learns her place as a girl , softens up and loses some of the intensity that made her an interesting character to begin with 

. 
ah-nuld's action hero days might be over . 
it's clear why deuces wild , which was shot two years ago , has been gathering dust on mgm's shelf . 
feels like nothing quite so much as a middle-aged moviemaker's attempt to surround himself with beautiful , half-naked women . 
when the precise nature of matthew's predicament finally comes into sharp focus , the revelation fails to justify the build-up . 
this picture is murder by numbers , and as easy to be bored by as your abc's , despite a few whopping shootouts . 
hilarious musical comedy though stymied by accents thick as mud . 
if you are into splatter movies , then you will probably have a reasonably good time with the salton sea . 
a dull , simple-minded and stereotypical tale of drugs , death and mind-numbing indifference on the inner-city streets . 
the feature-length stretch . . . strains the show's concept . 
this slender plot feels especially thin stretched over the nearly 80-minute running time . 
a film that will probably please people already fascinated by behan but leave everyone else yawning with admiration . 
davis the performer is plenty fetching enough , but she needs to shake up the mix , and work in something that doesn't feel like a half-baked 

stand-up routine . 
the densest distillation of roberts' movies ever made . 
ultimately , the film never recovers from the clumsy clichÈ of the ugly american abroad , and the too-frosty exterior ms . paltrow employs to 

authenticate her british persona is another liability . 
a handsome but unfulfilling suspense drama more suited to a quiet evening on pbs than a night out at an amc . 
tom green and an ivy league college should never appear together on a marquee , especially when the payoff is an unschooled comedy like 

stealing harvard , which fails to keep 80 minutes from seeming like 800 . 
 ( it ) highlights not so much the crime lord's messianic bent , but spacey's . 
master of disguise runs for only 71 minutes and feels like three hours . 
a reworking of die hard and cliffhanger but it's nowhere near as exciting as either . 
suffers from unlikable characters and a self-conscious sense of its own quirky hipness . 
a film without surprise geared toward maximum comfort and familiarity . 
fessenden continues to do interesting work , and it would be nice to see what he could make with a decent budget . but the problem with wendigo 

, for all its effective moments , isn't really one of resources . 
spirit is a visual treat , and it takes chances that are bold by studio standards , but it lacks a strong narrative . 
it stars schticky chris rock and stolid anthony hopkins , who seem barely in the same movie . their contrast is neither dramatic nor comic -- 

it's just a weird fizzle . 
this is a children's film in the truest sense . it's packed with adventure and a worthwhile environmental message , so it's great for the kids 

. parents , on the other hand , will be ahead of the plot at all times , and there isn't enough clever innuendo to fil
the niftiest trick perpetrated by the importance of being earnest is the alchemical transmogrification of wilde into austen--and a hollywood-

ized austen at that . 
tykwer's surface flash isn't just a poor fit with kieslowski's lyrical pessimism ; it completely contradicts everything kieslowski's work 

aspired to , including the condition of art . 
ice age is the first computer-generated feature cartoon to feel like other movies , and that makes for some glacial pacing early on . 
too slick and manufactured to claim street credibility . 
cherry orchard is badly edited , often awkwardly directed and suffers from the addition of a wholly unnecessary pre-credit sequence designed to 

give some of the characters a 'back story . '
what ensues are much blood-splattering , mass drug-induced bowel evacuations , and none-too-funny commentary on the cultural distinctions 

between americans and brits . 
a dark comedy that goes for sick and demented humor simply to do so . the movie is without intent . 
visually exciting sci-fi film which suffers from a lackluster screenplay . 
while hollywood ending has its share of belly laughs ( including a knockout of a closing line ) , the movie winds up feeling like a great 

missed opportunity . 
if the full monty was a freshman fluke , lucky break is [cattaneo] sophomore slump . 
 sandra bullock and hugh grant make a great team , but this predictable romantic comedy should get a pink slip . 
allegiance to chekhov , which director michael cacoyannis displays with somber earnestness in the new adaptation of the cherry orchard , is a 

particularly vexing handicap . 
you expect more from director michael apted ( enigma ) and screenwriter nicholas kazan ( reversal of fortune ) than this cliche pileup . 
the first mistake , i suspect , is casting shatner as a legendary professor and kunis as a brilliant college student--where's pauly shore as 

the rocket scientist ? 
the dramatic scenes are frequently unintentionally funny , and the action sequences -- clearly the main event -- are surprisingly uninvolving . 
replacing john carpenter's stylish tracking shots is degraded , handheld blair witch video-cam footage . of all the halloween's , this is the 

most visually unappealing . 
it has the requisite faux-urban vibe and hotter-two-years-ago rap and r&b names and references . 
despite its dry wit and compassion , the film suffers from a philosophical emptiness and maddeningly sedate pacing . 
 . . . feels as if ( there's ) a choke leash around your neck so director nick cassavetes can give it a good , hard yank whenever he wants you 

to feel something . 
attal pushes too hard to make this a comedy or serious drama . he seems to want both , but succeeds in making neither . 
i could have used my two hours better watching being john malkovich again . 
it's not a bad plot ; but , unfortunately , the movie is nowhere near as refined as all the classic dramas it borrows from . 
flat , misguided comedy . 
girlfriends are bad , wives are worse and babies are the kiss of death in this bitter italian comedy . 
the only young people who possibly will enjoy it are infants . . . who might be distracted by the movie's quick movements and sounds . 
the film boasts at least a few good ideas and features some decent performances , but the result is disappointing . 
no such thing breaks no new ground and treads old turf like a hippopotamus ballerina . 
unfortunately , neither sendak nor the directors are particularly engaging or articulate . 
a wishy-washy melodramatic movie that shows us plenty of sturm und drung , but explains its characters' decisions only unsatisfactorily . 
bang ! zoom ! it's actually pretty funny , but in all the wrong places . 
lurid and less than lucid work . 
a wannabe comedy of manners about a brainy prep-school kid with a mrs . robinson complex founders on its own preciousness -- and squanders its 

beautiful women . 
at a brief 42 minutes , we need more x and less blab . 
if anything , see it for karen black , who camps up a storm as a fringe feminist conspiracy theorist named dirty dick . 
this 90-minute dud could pass for mike tyson's e ! true hollywood story . 
this is surely one of the most frantic , virulent and foul-natured christmas season pics ever delivered by a hollywood studio . 
once the expectation of laughter has been quashed by whatever obscenity is at hand , even the funniest idea isn't funny . 
a porn film without the sex scenes . 
the connected stories of breitbart and hanussen are actually fascinating , but the filmmaking in invincible is such that the movie does not do 

them justice . 
a depressingly retrograde , 'post-feminist' romantic comedy that takes an astonishingly condescending attitude toward women . 
return to never land is much more p . c . than the original version ( no more racist portraits of indians , for instance ) , but the excitement 

is missing . 
by the end , you just don't care whether that cold-hearted snake petrovich ( that would be reno ) gets his comeuppance . just bring on the 

battle bots , please ! 
while it's all quite tasteful to look at , the attention process tends to do a little fleeing of its own . 
broder's screenplay is shallow , offensive and redundant , with pitifully few real laughs . 
yes they can swim , the title is merely anne-sophie birot's off-handed way of saying girls find adolescence difficult to wade through . 
don michael paul uses quick-cuts , ( very ) large shadows and wide-angle shots taken from a distance to hide the liberal use of a body double ( 

for seagal ) . 
slow , silly and unintentionally hilarious . 
the sweetest thing leaves a bitter taste . 
in a big corner office in hell , satan is throwing up his hands in surrender , is firing his r&d people , and has decided he will just screen 

the master of disguise 24/7 . 
for something as splendid-looking as this particular film , the viewer expects something special but instead gets [sci-fi] rehash . 
a thriller without a lot of thrills . 
this stuck pig of a movie flails limply between bizarre comedy and pallid horror . 
ah , the travails of metropolitan life ! alas , another breathless movie about same ! 
in moonlight mile , no one gets shut out of the hug cycle . 
though uniformly well acted , especially by young ballesta and galan ( a first-time actor ) , writer/director achero manas's film is schematic 

and obvious . 
done in mostly by a weak script that can't support the epic treatment . 
despite its visual virtuosity , 'naqoyqatsi' is banal in its message and the choice of material to convey it . 
slap her - she's not funny ! no french people were harmed during the making of this movie , but they were insulted and the audience was put 

through torture for an hour and a half . 
though its rather routine script is loaded with familiar situations , the movie has a cinematic fluidity and sense of intelligence that makes 

it work more than it probably should . 
 " one look at a girl in tight pants and big tits and you turn stupid ? " umÖ . . isn't that the basis for the entire plot ? 
 " not really as bad as you might think ! " 
strident and inelegant in its 'message-movie' posturing . 
one regards reign of fire with awe . what a vast enterprise has been marshaled in the service of such a minute idea . 
it has the right approach and the right opening premise , but it lacks the zest and it goes for a plot twist instead of trusting the material . 
its impressive images of crematorium chimney fires and stacks of dead bodies are undermined by the movie's presentation , which is way too 

stagy . 
seeing as the film lacks momentum and its position remains mostly undeterminable , the director's experiment is a successful one . 
the plot is romantic comedy boilerplate from start to finish . 
i suspect this is the kind of production that would have been funnier if the director had released the outtakes theatrically and used the film 

as a bonus feature on the dvd . 
an unfortunate title for a film that has nothing endearing about it . 
ninety minutes of viva castro ! can be as tiresome as 9 seconds of jesse helms' anti- castro rhetoric , which are included
comes off as a long , laborious whine , the bellyaching of a paranoid and unlikable man . 
it just goes to show , an intelligent person isn't necessarily an admirable storyteller . 
in a 102-minute film , aaliyah gets at most 20 minutes of screen time . . . . most viewers will wish there had been more of the " queen " and 

less of the " damned . " 
hopelessly inane , humorless and under-inspired . 
kapur fails to give his audience a single character worth rooting for ( or worth rooting against , for that matter ) . 
it reduces the complexities to bromides and slogans and it gets so preachy-keen and so tub-thumpingly loud it makes you feel like a chump just 

for sitting through it . 
none of this has the suavity or classical familiarity of bond , but much of it is good for a laugh . the problem with " xxx " is that its own 

action isn't very effective . 
a great script brought down by lousy direction . same guy with both hats . big mistake . 
a mediocre exercise in target demographics , unaware that it's the butt of its own joke . 
director kevin bray excels in breaking glass and marking off the " miami vice " checklist of power boats , latin music and dog tracks . he 

doesn't , however , deliver nearly enough of the show's trademark style and flash . 
in gleefully , thumpingly hyperbolic terms , it covers just about every cliche in the compendium about crass , jaded movie types and the phony 

baloney movie biz . 
the spalding gray equivalent of a teen gross-out comedy . 
perhaps even the slc high command found writer-director mitch davis's wall of kitsch hard going . 
according to wendigo , 'nature' loves the members of the upper class almost as much as they love themselves . 
an encouraging effort from mccrudden
the romance between the leads isn't as compelling or as believable as it should be . 
if i could have looked into my future and saw how bad this movie was , i would go back and choose to skip it . fortunately , you still have 

that option . 
supposedly authentic account of a historical event that's far too tragic to merit such superficial treatment . 
adroit but finally a trifle flat , mad love doesn't galvanize its outrage the way , say , jane campion might have done , but at least it 

possesses some . 
to blandly go where we went 8 movies ago . . . 
a slow-moving police-procedural thriller that takes its title all too literally . 
this u-boat doesn't have a captain . 
with nary a glimmer of self-knowledge , [crane] becomes more specimen than character -- and auto focus remains a chilly , clinical lab report . 
this one aims for the toilet and scores a direct hit . 
dull , a road-trip movie that's surprisingly short of both adventure and song . 
i walked away not really know who " they " were , what " they " looked like . why " they " were here and what " they " wanted and quite 

honestly , i didn't care . 
predictably melodramatic . 
after several scenes of this tacky nonsense , you'll be wistful for the testosterone-charged wizardry of jerry bruckheimer productions , 

especially because half past dead is like the rock on a wal-mart budget . 
a relatively effective little potboiler until its absurd , contrived , overblown , and entirely implausible finale . 
the country bears wastes an exceptionally good idea . but the movie that doesn't really deliver for country music fans or for family audiences
adults will certainly want to spend their time in the theater thinking up grocery lists and ways to tell their kids how not to act like 

pinocchio . as for children , they won't enjoy the movie at all . 
 . . . you can be forgiven for realizing that you've spent the past 20 minutes looking at your watch and waiting for frida to just die already 

. 
too bad writer-director adam rifkin situates it all in a plot as musty as one of the golden eagle's carpets . 
it's lazy for a movie to avoid solving one problem by trying to distract us with the solution to another . 
the movie is genial but never inspired , and little about it will stay with you . 
the movie obviously seeks to re-create the excitement of such '50s flicks as jules verne's '20 , 000 leagues under the sea' and the george pal 

version of h . g . wells' 'the time machine . ' but its storytelling prowess and special effects are both listless . 
despite the opulent lushness of every scene , the characters never seem to match the power of their surroundings . 
even after 90 minutes of playing opposite each other bullock and grant still look ill at ease sharing the same scene . what should have been a 

painless time-killer becomes instead a grating endurance test . 
a bland , obnoxious 88-minute infomercial for universal studios and its ancillary products . 
 . . little action , almost no suspense or believable tension , one-dimensional characters up the wazoo and sets that can only be described as 

sci-fi generic . 
the movie strains to stay on the light , comic side of the issue , despite the difficulty of doing so when dealing with the destruction of 

property and , potentially , of life itself . 
the master of disguise is awful . it's pauly shore awful . don't say you weren't warned . 
disappointing in comparison to other recent war moviesÖor any other john woo flick for that matter . 
the entire movie is filled with deja vu moments . 
'opening up' the play more has partly closed it down . 
what [frei] gives us . . . is a man who uses the damage of war -- far more often than the warfare itself -- to create the kind of art shots 

that fill gallery shows . 
an ugly , revolting movie . 
the film is way too full of itself ; it's stuffy and pretentious in a give-me-an-oscar kind of way . 
the movie is concocted and carried out by folks worthy of scorn , and the nicest thing i can say is that i can't remember a single name 

responsible for it . 
watching " ending " is too often like looking over the outdated clothes and plastic knickknacks at your neighbor's garage sale . you can't 

believe anyone would really buy this stuff . 
certainly beautiful to look at , but its not very informative about its titular character and no more challenging than your average television 

biopic . 
it desperately wants to be a wacky , screwball comedy , but the most screwy thing here is how so many talented people were convinced to waste 

their time . 
the skills of a calculus major at m . i . t . are required to balance all the formulaic equations in the long-winded heist comedy who is cletis 

tout ? 
from the choppy editing to the annoying score to 'special effects' by way of replacing objects in a character's hands below the camera line , " 

besotted " is misbegotten
my advice is to skip the film and pick up the soundtrack . 
a film that presents an interesting , even sexy premise then ruins itself with too many contrivances and goofy situations . 
filled with low-brow humor , gratuitous violence and a disturbing disregard for life . 
directed in a flashy , empty sub-music video style by a director so self-possessed he actually adds a period to his first name
the 70-year-old godard has become , to judge from in praise of love , the sort of bitter old crank who sits behind his light meter and 

harangues the supposed injustices of the artistic world-at-large without doing all that much to correct them . 
an unsophisticated sci-fi drama that takes itself all too seriously . 
solondz is without doubt an artist of uncompromising vision , but that vision is beginning to feel , if not morally bankrupt , at least 

terribly monotonous . 
harvard man is a semi-throwback , a reminiscence without nostalgia or sentimentality . 
supposedly based upon real , or at least soberly reported incidents , the film ends with a large human tragedy . alas , getting there is not 

even half the interest . 
while hoffman's performance is great , the subject matter goes nowhere . 
the smash 'em-up , crash 'em-up , shoot 'em-up ending comes out of nowhere substituting mayhem for suspense . 
deuces wild treads heavily into romeo and juliet/west side story territory , where it plainly has no business going . 
hart's war seems to want to be a character study , but apparently can't quite decide which character . 
theological matters aside , the movie is so clumsily sentimental and ineptly directed it may leave you speaking in tongues . 
this latest installment of the horror film franchise that is apparently as invulnerable as its trademark villain has arrived for an incongruous 

summer playoff , demonstrating yet again that the era of the intelligent , well-made b movie is long gone . 
novak contemplates a heartland so overwhelmed by its lack of purpose that it seeks excitement in manufactured high drama . 
been there , done that , liked it much better the first time around - when it was called the professional . 
the film is all over the place , really . it dabbles all around , never gaining much momentum . 
the beautiful , unusual music is this film's chief draw , but its dreaminess may lull you to sleep . 
the action quickly sinks into by-the-numbers territory . 
forages for audience sympathy like a temperamental child begging for attention , giving audiences no reason to truly care for its decrepit 

freaks beyond the promise of a reprieve from their incessant whining . 
when [reno] lets her radical flag fly , taking angry potshots at george w . bush , henry kissinger , larry king , et al . , reno devolves into 

a laugh-free lecture . 
such a premise is ripe for all manner of lunacy , but kaufman and gondry rarely seem sure of where it should go . 
burns' fifth beer-soaked film feels in almost every possible way -- from the writing and direction to the soggy performances -- tossed off . 
'es en verdad una pena que mandoki estÈ realizando cintas tan malas desde hace alg˙n tiempo , pues talento tiene , pero quiÈn sabe dÛnde lo 

tiene escondido . '
while this one gets off with a good natured warning , future lizard endeavors will need to adhere more closely to the laws of laughter
another boorish movie from the i-heard-a-joke- at-a-frat-party school of screenwriting . 
too much of the movie feels contrived , as if the filmmakers were worried the story wouldn't work without all those gimmicks . 
it's hard to understand why anyone in his right mind would even think to make the attraction a movie . and it's harder still to believe that 

anyone in his right mind would want to see the it . 
the ethos of the chelsea hotel may shape hawke's artistic aspirations , but he hasn't yet coordinated his own dv poetry with the beat he hears 

in his soul . 
the sight of the name bruce willis brings to mind images of a violent battlefield action picture , but the film has a lot more on its mind--

maybe too much . 
why sit through a crummy , wannabe-hip crime comedy that refers incessantly to old movies , when you could just rent those movies instead , let 

alone seek out a respectable new one ? 
the obnoxious special effects , the obligatory outbursts of flatulence and the incessant , so-five-minutes-ago pop music on the soundtrack 

overwhelm what is left of the scruffy , dopey old hanna-barbera charm . 
exploring value choices is a worthwhile topic for a film -- but here the choices are as contrived and artificial as kerrigan's platinum-blonde 

hair . 
the movie's downfall is to substitute plot for personality . it doesn't really know or care about the characters , and uses them as markers for 

a series of preordained events . 
all mood and no movie . 
press the delete key . 
simone is not a bad film . it just doesn't have anything really interesting to say . 
once he starts learning to compromise with reality enough to become comparatively sane and healthy , the film becomes predictably conventional 

. 
 . . . hopefully it'll be at the dollar theatres by the time christmas rolls around . wait to see it then . 
there's no disguising this as one of the worst films of the summer . or for the year , for that matter . 
lacks the spirit of the previous two , and makes all those jokes about hos and even more unmentionable subjects seem like mere splashing around 

in the muck . 
this hastily mounted production exists only to capitalize on hopkins' inclination to play hannibal lecter again , even though harris has no 

immediate inclination to provide a fourth book . 
death to smoochy tells a moldy-oldie , not-nearly -as-nasty -as-it- thinks-it-is joke . over and over again . 
the threat implied in the title pokÈmon 4ever is terrifying ñ like locusts in a horde these things will keep coming . 
the film never gets over its own investment in conventional arrangements , in terms of love , age , gender , race , and class . 
to call this film a lump of coal would only be to flatter it . 
entertainment more disposable than hanna-barbera's half-hour cartoons ever were . 
the film falls short on tension , eloquence , spiritual challenge -- things that have made the original new testament stories so compelling for 

20 centuries . 
by the end of it all i sort of loved the people onscreen , even though i could not stand them . perhaps the film should be seen as a 

conversation starter . it's not an easy one to review . 
at best this is a film for the under-7 crowd . but it would be better to wait for the video . and a very rainy day . 
the whole talking-animal thing is grisly . 
never again , while nothing special , is pleasant , diverting and modest -- definitely a step in the right direction . 
wouldn't it be funny if a bunch of allied soldiers went undercover as women in a german factory during world war ii ? um , no . but here's a 

movie about it anyway . 
has not so much been written as assembled , frankenstein-like , out of other , marginally better shoot-em-ups . 
the punch lines that miss , unfortunately , outnumber the hits by three-to-one . but death to smoochy keeps firing until the bitter end . 
mushes the college-friends genre ( the big chill ) together with the contrivances and overwrought emotion of soap operas . 
showtime's starry cast could be both an asset and a detriment . those who trek to the 'plex predisposed to like it probably will enjoy 

themselves . but ticket-buyers with great expectations will wind up as glum as mr . de niro . 
a determined , ennui-hobbled slog that really doesn't have much to say beyond the news flash that loneliness can make people act weird . 
too daft by half . . . but supremely good natured . 
fails in making this character understandable , in getting under her skin , in exploring motivation . . . well before the end , the film grows 

as dull as its characters , about whose fate it is hard to care . 
it's a shame that the storyline and its underlying themes . . . finally seem so impersonal or even shallow . 
woody , what happened ? 
juliette binoche's sand is vivacious , but it's hard to sense that powerhouse of 19th-century prose behind her childlike smile . 
it's supposed to be post-feminist breezy but ends up as tedious as the chatter of parrots raised on oprah . 
you can tell almost immediately that welcome to collinwood isn't going to jell . 
throughout all the tumult , a question comes to mind : so why is this so boring ? 
cattaneo reworks the formula that made the full monty a smashing success . . . but neglects to add the magic that made it all work . 
routine and rather silly . 
a rip-off twice removed , modeled after [seagal's] earlier copycat under siege , sometimes referred to as die hard on a boat . 
totally overwrought , deeply biased , and wholly designed to make you feel guilty about ignoring what the filmmakers clearly believe are the 

greatest musicians of all time . 
you can practically hear george orwell turning over . 
behan's memoir is great material for a film -- rowdy , brawny and lyrical in the best irish sense -- but sheridan has settled for a lugubrious 

romance . 
while holm is terrific as both men and hjejle quite appealing , the film fails to make the most out of the intriguing premise . 
lazy filmmaking , with the director taking a hands-off approach when he should have shaped the story to show us why it's compelling . 
if it were any more of a turkey , it would gobble in dolby digital stereo . if nothing else , " rollerball " 2002 may go down in cinema history 

as the only movie ever in which the rest of the cast was outshined by ll cool j . 
a movie that falls victim to frazzled wackiness and frayed satire . 
how do you make a movie with depth about a man who lacked any ? on the evidence before us , the answer is clear : not easily and , in the end , 

not well enough . 
the film's trailer also looked like crap , so crap is what i was expecting . 
more trifle than triumph . 
the movie is almost completely lacking in suspense , surprise and consistent emotional conviction . 
festers in just such a dungpile that you'd swear you were watching monkeys flinging their feces at you . 
lyne's latest , the erotic thriller unfaithful , further demonstrates just how far his storytelling skills have eroded . 
it sounds like another clever if pointless excursion into the abyss , and that's more or less how it plays out . 
rumor , a muddled drama about coming to terms with death , feels impersonal , almost generic . 
report card : doesn't live up to the exalted tagline - there's definite room for improvement . doesn't deserve a passing grade ( even on a 

curve ) . 
the pacing is deadly , the narration helps little and naipaul , a juicy writer , is negated . 
as his circle of friends keeps getting smaller one of the characters in long time dead says 'i'm telling you , this is f * * * ed' . maybe he 

was reading the minds of the audience . 
 . . . if it had been only half-an-hour long or a tv special , the humor would have been fast and furious-- at ninety minutes , it drags . 
bean drops the ball too many times . . . hoping the nifty premise will create enough interest to make up for an unfocused screenplay . 
a well-acted , but one-note film . 
blood work is laughable in the solemnity with which it tries to pump life into overworked elements from eastwood's dirty harry period . 
the movie is too amateurishly square to make the most of its own ironic implications . 
[lee] treats his audience the same way that jim brown treats his women -- as dumb , credulous , unassuming , subordinate subjects . and lee 

seems just as expectant of an adoring , wide-smiling reception . 
there's not one decent performance from the cast and not one clever line of dialogue . 
one of the worst movies of the year . . . . watching it was painful . 
a era do gelo diverte , mas n?o convence . È um passatempo descompromissado ñ e sÛ . 
no amount of burning , blasting , stabbing , and shooting can hide a weak script . 
it's an odd show , pregnant with moods , stillborn except as a harsh conceptual exercise . 
nearly all the fundamentals you take for granted in most films are mishandled here . 
the armenian genocide deserves a more engaged and honest treatment . 
earnest yet curiously tepid and choppy recycling in which predictability is the only winner . 
ultimately this is a frustrating patchwork : an uneasy marriage of louis begley's source novel ( about schmidt ) and an old payne screenplay . 
the exploitative , clumsily staged violence overshadows everything , including most of the actors . 
we started to wonder if Ö some unpaid intern had just typed 'chris rock , ' 'anthony hopkins' and 'terrorists' into some univac-like script 

machine . 
even when crush departs from the 4w formula . . . it feels like a glossy rehash . 
more likely to have you scratching your head than hiding under your seat . 
bears is even worse than i imagined a movie ever could be . 
when you find yourself rooting for the monsters in a horror movie , you know the picture is in trouble . 
this is very much of a mixed bag , with enough negatives to outweigh the positives . 
marinated in clichÈs and mawkish dialogue . 
whether it's the worst movie of 2002 , i can't say for sure : memories of rollerball have faded , and i skipped country bears . but this new 

jangle of noise , mayhem and stupidity must be a serious contender for the title . 
[a] boldly stroked , luridly coloured , uni-dimensional nonsense machine that strokes the eyeballs while it evaporates like so much crypt mist 

in the brain . 
not once in the rush to save the day did i become very involved in the proceedings ; to me , it was just a matter of 'eh . '
rollerball is as bad as you think , and worse than you can imagine . 
the first question to ask about bad company is why anthony hopkins is in it . we assume he had a bad run in the market or a costly divorce , 

because there is no earthly reason other than money why this distinguished actor would stoop so low . 
not exaggerated enough to be a parody of gross-out flicks , college flicks , or even flicks in general . it merely indulges in the worst 

elements of all of them . 
shame on writer/director vicente aranda for making a florid biopic about mad queens , obsessive relationships , and rampant adultery so dull . 
suffers from a decided lack of creative storytelling . 
violent , vulgar and forgettably entertaining . 
nothing happens , and it happens to flat characters . 
with a completely predictable plot , you'll swear that you've seen it all before , even if you've never come within a mile of the longest yard 

. 
remember back when thrillers actually thrilled ? when the twist endings were actually surprising ? when the violence actually shocked ? when 

the heroes were actually under 40 ? sadly , as blood work proves , that was a long , long time ago . 
blue crush has all the trappings of an energetic , extreme-sports adventure , but ends up more of a creaky " pretty woman " retread , with the 

emphasis on self-empowering schmaltz and big-wave surfing that gives pic its title an afterthought . 
this movie plays like an extended dialogue exercise in retard 101 . 
what we get in feardotcom is more like something from a bad clive barker movie . in other words , it's badder than bad . 
if they broke out into elaborate choreography , singing and finger snapping it might have held my attention , but as it stands i kept looking 

for the last exit from brooklyn . 
a sloppy slapstick throwback to long gone bottom-of-the-bill fare like the ghost and mr . chicken . 
a small independent film suffering from a severe case of hollywood-itis . 
where the film falters is in its tone . 
the story alone could force you to scratch a hole in your head . 
ultimately , sarah's dedication to finding her husband seems more psychotic than romantic , and nothing in the movie makes a convincing case 

that one woman's broken heart outweighs all the loss we witness . 
it's supposed to be a humorous , all-too-human look at how hope can breed a certain kind of madness -- and strength -- but it never quite adds 

up . 
feels more like a rejected x-files episode than a credible account of a puzzling real-life happening . 
some motion pictures portray ultimate passion ; others create ultimate thrills . men in black ii achieves ultimate insignificance -- it's the 

sci-fi comedy spectacle as whiffle-ball epic . 
an enigmatic film that's too clever for its own good , it's a conundrum not worth solving . 
a zombie movie in every sense of the word--mindless , lifeless , meandering , loud , painful , obnoxious . 
rashomon-for-dipsticks tale . 
a film that clearly means to preach exclusively to the converted . 
it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that this is a mormon family movie , and a sappy , preachy one at that . 
definitely a crowd-pleaser , but then , so was the roman colosseum . 
certainly not a good movie , but it wasn't horrible either . 
although it starts off so bad that you feel like running out screaming , it eventually works its way up to merely bad rather than painfully 

awful . 
the result is so tame that even slightly wised-up kids would quickly change the channel . 
it appears to have been modeled on the worst revenge-of-the-nerds clichÈs the filmmakers could dredge up . 
nothing but an episode of smackdown ! in period costume and with a bigger budget . 
it takes you somewhere you're not likely to have seen before , but beneath the exotic surface ( and exotic dancing ) it's surprisingly old-

fashioned . 
while the story is better-focused than the incomprehensible anne rice novel it's based upon , queen of the damned is a pointless , meandering 

celebration of the goth-vampire , tortured woe-is-me lifestyle . 
it should be interesting , it should be poignant , it turns out to be affected and boring . 
a good-looking but ultimately pointless political thriller with plenty of action and almost no substance . 
a tired , predictable , bordering on offensive , waste of time , money and celluloid . 
if hill isn't quite his generation's don siegel ( or robert aldrich ) , it's because there's no discernible feeling beneath the chest hair ; 

it's all bluster and clichÈ . 
stealing harvard will dip into your wallet , swipe 90 minutes of your time , and offer you precisely this in recompense : a few early laughs 

scattered around a plot as thin as it is repetitious . 
this is an insultingly inept and artificial examination of grief and its impacts upon the relationships of the survivors . 
does anyone much think the central story of brendan behan is that he was a bisexual sweetheart before he took to drink ? 
`martin lawrence live' is so self-pitying , i almost expected there to be a collection taken for the comedian at the end of the show . 
the dialogue is cumbersome , the simpering soundtrack and editing more so . 
never decides whether it wants to be a black comedy , drama , melodrama or some combination of the three . 
it has become apparent that the franchise's best years are long past . 
does what should seem impossible : it makes serial killer jeffrey dahmer boring . 
don't hate el crimen del padre amaro because it's anti-catholic . hate it because it's lousy . 
 . . . better described as a ghost story gone badly awry . 
like a bad improvisation exercise , the superficially written characters ramble on tediously about their lives , loves and the art they're 

struggling to create . 
the filmmakers are playing to the big boys in new york and l . a . to that end , they mock the kind of folks they don't understand , ones they 

figure the power-lunchers don't care to understand , either . 
competently directed but terminally cute drama . 
the big finish is a bit like getting all excited about a chocolate eclair and then biting into it and finding the filling missing . 
not just unlikable . disturbing . disgusting . without any redeeming value whatsoever . 
this thing is virtually unwatchable . 
those eternally devoted to the insanity of black will have an intermittently good time . feel free to go get popcorn whenever he's not onscreen 

. 
the self-serious equilibrium makes its point too well ; a movie , like life , isn't much fun without the highs and lows . 
the work of an exhausted , desiccated talent who can't get out of his own way . 
the main characters are simply named the husband , the wife and the kidnapper , emphasizing the disappointingly generic nature of the entire 

effort . 
in terms of execution this movie is careless and unfocused . 
swims in mediocrity , sticking its head up for a breath of fresh air now and then . 
the only type of lives this glossy comedy-drama resembles are ones in formulaic mainstream movies . 
the characters . . . are paper-thin , and their personalities undergo radical changes when it suits the script . 
a sha-na-na sketch punctuated with graphic violence . 
the trouble is , its filmmakers run out of clever ideas and visual gags about halfway through . 
spy-vs . -spy action flick with antonio banderas and lucy liu never comes together . 
a so-so , made-for-tv something posing as a real movie . 
the only upside to all of this unpleasantness is , given its labor day weekend upload , feardotcom should log a minimal number of hits . 
whether this is art imitating life or life imitating art , it's an unhappy situation all around . 
an uneasy mix of run-of-the-mill raunchy humor and seemingly sincere personal reflection . 
a formula family tearjerker told with a heavy irish brogue . . . accentuating , rather than muting , the plot's saccharine thrust . 
this is sandler running on empty , repeating what he's already done way too often . 
this is as lax and limp a comedy as i've seen in a while , a meander through worn-out material . 
time literally stops on a dime in the tries-so-hard-to-be-cool " clockstoppers , " but that doesn't mean it still won't feel like the longest 

90 minutes of your movie-going life . 
the sort of picture in which , whenever one of the characters has some serious soul searching to do , they go to a picture-perfect beach during 

sunset . 
aptly named , this shimmering , beautifully costumed and filmed production doesn't work for me . 
a preposterously melodramatic paean to gang-member teens in brooklyn circa 1958 . 
has none of the crackle of " fatal attraction " , " 9 ? weeks " , or even " indecent proposal " , and feels more like lyne's stolid remake of " 

lolita " . 
everything its title implies , a standard-issue crime drama spat out from the tinseltown assembly line . 
an extraordinarily silly thriller . 
a rehash of every gangster movie from the past decade . 
gaping plot holes sink this 'sub'-standard thriller and drag audience enthusiasm to crush depth . 
talkiness isn't necessarily bad , but the dialogue frequently misses the mark . 
the beautiful images and solemn words cannot disguise the slack complacency of [godard's] vision , any more than the gorgeous piano and strings 

on the soundtrack can drown out the tinny self-righteousness of his voice . 
the stunt work is top-notch ; the dialogue and drama often food-spittingly funny . 
the movie isn't painfully bad , something to be 'fully experienced' ; it's just tediously bad , something to be fully forgotten . 
charly comes off as emotionally manipulative and sadly imitative of innumerable past love story derisions . 
what a great shame that such a talented director as chen kaige has chosen to make his english-language debut with a film so poorly plotted and 

scripted . 
no amount of good intentions is able to overcome the triviality of the story . 
the film . . . presents classic moral-condundrum drama : what would you have done to survive ? the problem with the film is whether these 

ambitions , laudable in themselves , justify a theatrical simulation of the death camp of auschwitz ii-birkenau . 
 . . . for all its social and political potential , state property doesn't end up being very inspiring or insightful . 
a film really has to be exceptional to justify a three hour running time , and this isn't . 
little more than a stylish exercise in revisionism whose point . . . is no doubt true , but serves as a rather thin moral to such a knowing 

fable . 
the nonstop artifice ultimately proves tiresome , with the surface histrionics failing to compensate for the paper-thin characterizations and 

facile situations . 
this is a monumental achievement in practically every facet of inept filmmaking : joyless , idiotic , annoying , heavy-handed , visually 

atrocious , and often downright creepy . 
this off-putting french romantic comedy is sure to test severely the indulgence of fans of amÈlie . 
overburdened with complicated plotting and banal dialogue
ensemble movies , like soap operas , depend on empathy . if there ain't none , you have a problem . 
the master of disguise falls under the category of 'should have been a sketch on saturday night live . '
yet another self-consciously overwritten story about a rag-tag bunch of would-be characters that team up for a can't-miss heist -- only to have 

it all go wrong . 
koepp's screenplay isn't nearly surprising or clever enough to sustain a reasonable degree of suspense on its own . 
is it really an advantage to invest such subtlety and warmth in an animatronic bear when the humans are acting like puppets ? 
more successful at relating history than in creating an emotionally complex , dramatically satisfying heroine
clumsy , obvious , preposterous , the movie will likely set the cause of woman warriors back decades . 
it's hard to pity the 'plain' girl who becomes a ravishing waif after applying a smear of lip-gloss . rather , pity anyone who sees this 

mishmash . 
a banal , virulently unpleasant excuse for a romantic comedy . 
the drama discloses almost nothing . 
a minor-league soccer remake of the longest yard . 
belongs in the too-hot-for-tv direct-to-video/dvd category , and this is why i have given it a one-star rating . 
as earnest as a community-college advertisement , american chai is enough to make you put away the guitar , sell the amp , and apply to medical 

school . 
a dim-witted and lazy spin-off of the animal planet documentary series , crocodile hunter is entertainment opportunism at its most glaring . 
there is more than one joke about putting the toilet seat down . and that should tell you everything you need to know about all the queen's men 

. 
even fans of ismail merchant's work , i suspect , would have a hard time sitting through this one . 
it's really just another silly hollywood action film , one among a multitude of simple-minded , yahoo-ing death shows . 
it's not a particularly good film , but neither is it a monsterous one . 
the world needs more filmmakers with passionate enthusiasms like martin scorsese . but it doesn't need gangs of new york . 
enchanted with low-life tragedy and liberally seasoned with emotional outbursts . . . what is sorely missing , however , is the edge of wild , 

lunatic invention that we associate with cage's best acting . 
harry potter and the chamber of secrets is deja vu all over again , and while that is a cliche , nothing could be more appropriate . it's 

likely that whatever you thought of the first production -- pro or con -- you'll likely think of this one . 
sade achieves the near-impossible : it turns the marquis de sade into a dullard . 
[lin chung's] voice is rather unexceptional , even irritating ( at least to this western ear ) , making it awfully hard to buy the impetus for 

the complicated love triangle that develops between the three central characters . 
one of the most plain , unimaginative romantic comedies i've ever seen . 
though there's a clarity of purpose and even-handedness to the film's direction , the drama feels rigged and sluggish . 
unfortunately , the experience of actually watching the movie is less compelling than the circumstances of its making . 
unless there are zoning ordinances to protect your community from the dullest science fiction , impostor is opening today at a theater near you 

. 
it should be doing a lot of things , but doesn't . 
chen films the resolutely downbeat smokers only with every indulgent , indie trick in the book . 
 . . . a rather bland affair . 
far-fetched premise , convoluted plot , and thematic mumbo jumbo about destiny and redemptive love . 
the movie tries to be ethereal , but ends up seeming goofy . 
i was hoping that it would be sleazy and fun , but it was neither . 
harris is supposed to be the star of the story , but comes across as pretty dull and wooden . 
soulless and -- even more damning -- virtually joyless , xxx achieves near virtuosity in its crapulence . 
a boring masquerade ball where normally good actors , even kingsley , are made to look bad . 
all the queen's men is a throwback war movie that fails on so many levels , it should pay reparations to viewers . 
the filmmakers keep pushing the jokes at the expense of character until things fall apart . 
rather than real figures , elling and kjell bjarne become symbolic characters whose actions are supposed to relate something about the na?f's 

encounter with the world . 
mariah carey gives us another peek at some of the magic we saw in glitter here in wisegirls . 
it's all arty and jazzy and people sit and stare and turn away from one another instead of talking and it's all about the silences and if 

you're into that , have at it . 
i suspect that you'll be as bored watching morvern callar as the characters are in it . if you go , pack your knitting needles . 
the lead actors share no chemistry or engaging charisma . we don't even like their characters . 
some writer dude , i think his name was , uh , michael zaidan , was supposed to have like written the screenplay or something , but , dude , 

the only thing that i ever saw that was written down were the zeroes on my paycheck . 
the movie doesn't generate a lot of energy . it is dark , brooding and slow , and takes its central idea way too seriously . 
this feature is about as necessary as a hole in the head
the cinematic equivalent of patronizing a bar favored by pretentious , untalented artistes who enjoy moaning about their cruel fate . 
spectators will indeed sit open-mouthed before the screen , not screaming but yawning . 
it feels like very light errol morris , focusing on eccentricity but failing , ultimately , to make something bigger out of its scrapbook of 

oddballs . 
a period story about a catholic boy who tries to help a jewish friend get into heaven by sending the audience straight to hell . 
the premise itself is just sooooo tired . pair that with really poor comedic writing . . . and you've got a huge mess . 
proves a lovely trifle that , unfortunately , is a little too in love with its own cuteness . 
did we really need a remake of " charade ? " 
some movies can get by without being funny simply by structuring the scenes as if they were jokes : a setup , delivery and payoff . stealing 

harvard can't even do that much . each scene immediately succumbs to gravity and plummets to earth . 
the only fun part of the movie is playing the obvious game . you try to guess the order in which the kids in the house will be gored . 
i spied with my little eye . . . a mediocre collection of cookie-cutter action scenes and occasionally inspired dialogue bits
entertains not so much because of its music or comic antics , but through the perverse pleasure of watching disney scrape the bottom of its own 

cracker barrel . 
the satire is just too easy to be genuinely satisfying . 
bearable . barely . 
less funny than it should be and less funny than it thinks it is . 
an " o bruin , where art thou ? " -style cross-country adventure . . . it has sporadic bursts of liveliness , some so-so slapstick and a few 

ear-pleasing songs on its soundtrack . 
a feeble tootsie knockoff . 
an awful movie that will only satisfy the most emotionally malleable of filmgoers . 
Öthe story is far-flung , illogical , and plain stupid . 
the very simple story seems too simple and the working out of the plot almost arbitrary . 
an allegory concerning the chronically mixed signals african american professionals get about overachieving could be intriguing , but the 

supernatural trappings only obscure the message . 
a very familiar tale , one that's been told by countless filmmakers about italian- , chinese- , irish- , latin- , indian- , russian- and other 

hyphenate american young men struggling to balance conflicting cultural messages . 
one key problem with these ardently christian storylines is that there is never any question of how things will turn out . 
essentially , the film is weak on detail and strong on personality
a relentless , bombastic and ultimately empty world war ii action flick . 
[hell is] looking down at your watch and realizing serving sara isn't even halfway through . 
too long , and larded with exposition , this somber cop drama ultimately feels as flat as the scruffy sands of its titular community . 
leaves viewers out in the cold and undermines some phenomenal performances . 
 . . . a ho-hum affair , always watchable yet hardly memorable . 
swiftly deteriorates into a terribly obvious melodrama and rough-hewn vanity project for lead actress andie macdowell . 
the histrionic muse still eludes madonna and , playing a charmless witch , she is merely a charmless witch . 
you have no affinity for most of the characters . nothing about them is attractive . what they see in each other also is difficult to fathom . 
diaz , applegate , blair and posey are suitably kooky which should appeal to women and they strip down often enough to keep men alert , if not 

amused . 
a technically well-made suspenser . . . but its abrupt drop in iq points as it races to the finish line proves simply too discouraging to let 

slide . 
an inept , tedious spoof of '70s kung fu pictures , it contains almost enough chuckles for a three-minute sketch , and no more . 
it's a mystery how the movie could be released in this condition . 
absolutely ( and unintentionally ) terrifying . 
eckstraordinarily lame and severely boring . 
eight legged freaks falls flat as a spoof . 
no matter how much he runs around and acts like a doofus , accepting a 50-year-old in the role is creepy in a michael jackson sort of way . 
you'll just have your head in your hands wondering why lee's character didn't just go to a bank manager and save everyone the misery . 
'dragonfly' dwells on crossing-over mumbo jumbo , manipulative sentimentality , and sappy dialogue . 
in his determination to lighten the heavy subject matter , silberling also , to a certain extent , trivializes the movie with too many nervous 

gags and pratfalls . 
blade ii has a brilliant director and charismatic star , but it suffers from rampant vampire devaluation . 
veers uncomfortably close to pro-serb propaganda . 
staggeringly dreadful romance . 
movies like high crimes flog the dead horse of surprise as if it were an obligation . how about surprising us by trying something new ? 
final verdict : you've seen it all before . 
throwing in everything except someone pulling the pin from a grenade with his teeth , windtalkers seems to have ransacked every old world war 

ii movie for overly familiar material . 
if a few good men told us that we " can't handle the truth " than high crimes poetically states at one point in this movie that we " don't care 

about the truth . " 
further sad evidence that tom tykwer , director of the resonant and sense-spinning run lola run , has turned out to be a one-trick pony -- a 

maker of softheaded metaphysical claptrap . 
you'll trudge out of the theater feeling as though you rode the zipper after eating a corn dog and an extra-large cotton candy . 
the movie is a little tired ; maybe the original inspiration has run its course . 
this will go on so long as there are moviegoers anxious to see strange young guys doing strange guy things . 
a full-frontal attack on audience patience . 
any intellectual arguments being made about the nature of god are framed in a drama so clumsy , there is a real danger less sophisticated 

audiences will mistake it for an endorsement of the very things that bean abhors . 
it's a big idea , but the film itself is small and shriveled . 
debut effort by " project greenlight " winner is sappy and amateurish . 
one gets the impression the creators of don't ask don't tell laughed a hell of a lot at their own jokes . too bad none of it is funny . 
the cast has a high time , but de broca has little enthusiasm for such antique pulp . 
the film , like jimmy's routines , could use a few good laughs . 
the film has too many spots where it's on slippery footing , but is acceptable entertainment for the entire family and one that's especially 

fit for the kiddies . 
purports to be a hollywood satire but winds up as the kind of film that should be the target of something deeper and more engaging . oh , and 

more entertaining , too . 
 . . . in the pile of useless actioners from mtv schmucks who don't know how to tell a story for more than four minutes . 
though it was made with careful attention to detail and is well-acted by james spader and maggie gyllenhaal , i felt disrespected . 
well-made but mush-hearted . 
humor in i spy is so anemic . 
the film is strictly routine . 
a real snooze . 
skillful as he is , mr . shyamalan is undone by his pretensions . 
while the new film is much more eye-catching than its blood-drenched stephen norrington-directed predecessor , the new script by the returning 

david s . goyer is much sillier . 
in addition to sporting one of the worst titles in recent cinematic history , ballistic : ecks vs . sever also features terrible , banal 

dialogue ; convenient , hole-ridden plotting ; superficial characters and a rather dull , unimaginative car chase . 
it shares the first two films' loose-jointed structure , but laugh-out-loud bits are few and far between . 
the santa clause 2 is a barely adequate babysitter for older kids , but i've got to give it thumbs down . 
you cannot guess why the cast and crew didn't sign a pact to burn the negative and the script and pretend the whole thing never existed . 
barney throws away the goodwill the first half of his movie generates by orchestrating a finale that is impenetrable and dull . 
if you're really renting this you're not interested in discretion in your entertainment choices , you're interested in anne geddes , john 

grisham , and thomas kincaid . 
we get the comedy we settle for . 
the uneven movie does have its charms and its funny moments but not quite enough of them . 
two hours of sepia-tinted heavy metal images and surround sound effects of people moaning . 
a word of advice to the makers of the singles ward : celebrity cameos do not automatically equal laughs . and neither do cliches , no matter 

how 'inside' they are . 
the campy results make mel brooks' borscht belt schtick look sophisticated . 
its appeal will probably limited to lds church members and undemanding armchair tourists . 
the hanukkah spirit seems fried in pork . 
cherish would've worked a lot better had it been a short film . 
manipulative claptrap , a period-piece movie-of-the-week , plain old blarney . . . take your pick . all three descriptions suit evelyn , a 

besotted and obvious drama that tells us nothing new . 
hey arnold ! is now stretched to barely feature length , with a little more attention paid to the animation . still , the updated dickensian 

sensibility of writer craig bartlett's story is appealing . 
true to its title , it traps audiences in a series of relentlessly nasty situations that we would pay a considerable ransom not to be looking 

at . 
doesn't come close to justifying the hype that surrounded its debut at the sundance film festival two years ago . 
the plot is paper-thin and the characters aren't interesting enough to watch them go about their daily activities for two whole hours . 
kaufman's script is never especially clever and often is rather pretentious . 
the film didn't move me one way or the other , but it was an honest effort and if you want to see a flick about telemarketers this one will due 

. 
queen of the damned is too long with too little going on . 
it collapses when mr . taylor tries to shift the tone to a thriller's rush . 
any film that doesn't even in passing mention political prisoners , poverty and the boat loads of people who try to escape the country is less 

a documentary and more propaganda by way of a valentine sealed with a kiss . 
 . . . blade ii is still top-heavy with blazing guns , cheatfully filmed martial arts , disintegrating bloodsucker computer effects and jagged 

camera moves that serve no other purpose than to call attention to themselves . 
the rules of attraction gets us too drunk on the party favors to sober us up with the transparent attempts at moralizing . 
though there are many tense scenes in trapped , they prove more distressing than suspenseful . 
in this film we at least see a study in contrasts ; the wide range of one actor , and the limited range of a comedian . 
feels strangely hollow at its emotional core . 
no surprises . 
you have once again entered the bizarre realm where director adrian lyne holds sway , where all relationships are simultaneously broadly 

metaphorical , oddly abstract , and excruciatingly literal . 
the high-concept scenario soon proves preposterous , the acting is robotically italicized , and truth-in-advertising hounds take note : there's 

very little hustling on view . 
this director's cut -- which adds 51 minutes -- takes a great film and turns it into a mundane soap opera . 
characterisation has been sacrificed for the sake of spectacle . 
the venezuelans say things like " si , pretty much " and " por favor , go home " when talking to americans . that's muy loco , but no more 

ridiculous than most of the rest of " dragonfly . " 
it's a movie that ends with truckzilla , for cryin' out loud . if that doesn't clue you in that something's horribly wrong , nothing will . 
director tom shadyac and star kevin costner glumly mishandle the story's promising premise of a physician who needs to heal himself . 
it's difficult to imagine that a more confused , less interesting and more sloppily made film could possibly come down the road in 2002 . 
like the tuck family themselves , this movie just goes on and on and on and on
as pedestrian as they come . 
a film that plays things so nice 'n safe as to often play like a milquetoast movie of the week blown up for the big screen . 
it's a feel-bad ending for a depressing story that throws a bunch of hot-button items in the viewer's face and asks to be seen as hip , winking 

social commentary . 
put it somewhere between sling blade and south of heaven , west of hell in the pantheon of billy bob's body of work . 
more intellectually scary than dramatically involving . 
an inconsequential , barely there bit of piffle . 
the abiding impression , despite the mild hallucinogenic buzz , is of overwhelming waste -- the acres of haute couture can't quite conceal that 

there's nothing resembling a spine here . 
as saccharine as it is disposable . 
you come away thinking not only that kate isn't very bright , but that she hasn't been worth caring about and that maybe she , janine and molly 

-- an all-woman dysfunctional family -- deserve one another . 
the metaphors are provocative , but too often , the viewer is left puzzled by the mechanics of the delivery . 
very much a home video , and so devoid of artifice and purpose that it appears not to have been edited at all . 
too much power , not enough puff . 
the attempt to build up a pressure cooker of horrified awe emerges from the simple fact that the movie has virtually nothing to show . 
it's provocative stuff , but the speculative effort is hampered by taylor's cartoonish performance and the film's ill-considered notion that 

hitler's destiny was shaped by the most random of chances . 
a cellophane-pop remake of the punk classic ladies and gentlemen , the fabulous stains . . . crossroads is never much worse than bland or 

better than inconsequential . 
muddled , trashy and incompetent
for this sort of thing to work , we need agile performers , but the proficient , dull sorvino has no light touch , and rodan is out of his 

league . 
narc is all menace and atmosphere . 
though excessively tiresome , the uncertainty principle , as verbally pretentious as the title may be , has its handful of redeeming features , 

as long as you discount its ability to bore . 
despite juliet stevenon's attempt to bring cohesion to pamela's emotional roller coaster life , it is not enough to give the film the substance 

it so desperately needs . 
it's tough to be startled when you're almost dozing . 
his [nelson's] screenplay needs some serious re-working to show more of the dilemma , rather than have his characters stage shouting matches 

about it . 
it's so downbeat and nearly humorless that it becomes a chore to sit through -- despite some first-rate performances by its lead . 
a terrible movie that some people will nevertheless find moving . 
there are many definitions of 'time waster' but this movie must surely be one of them . 
as it stands , crocodile hunter has the hurried , badly cobbled look of the 1959 godzilla , which combined scenes of a japanese monster flick 

with canned shots of raymond burr commenting on the monster's path of destruction . 
the thing looks like a made-for-home-video quickie . 
enigma is well-made , but it's just too dry and too placid . 

