
Document Number: 6127
saving a billion lives. He has won virtually every important humanitarian award, including the Nobel Peace Prize. World leaders revere Borlaug as a celebrity. Yet, he is humble, and in touch with the needs and aspirations of ordinary people one can think of. For the past 62 years, Borlaug has worked at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in Mexico where he developed the 'dwarf' varieties of wheat, triggering the Green Revolution. Short varieties produce more grain per acre because they tap sunlight more effectively and do not collapse with the weight of the grain. Borlaug creatively combined wheat varieties from across the world to introduce the dwarfness genes into wheat grown in Mexico, India and Pakistan. Other countries adopted his breakthrough with amazing results. In the developing world, wheat yields that had remained at an abysmal 250 kg/ha for decades increased ten fold in the last 40 years. India, which harvested a meagre 12 million tons of wheat in 1965, now produces over 80 million tons. Similar discoveries of a dwarf gene in rice also led to a boost in this miracle crop - this time pioneered by Indian scientist Gurdev Khush, working in the Philippines. The poorest 







Document Number: 1002
Revolution' anchored by the development of high-yielding varieties of grains improved the lives of most people on this planet through enhanced and affordable food supply, boosted incomes for millions of farmers, and reduced the incidence of famine and starvation despite massive population increases in the past few decades. Nevertheless, food insecurity and malnutrition still persists in parts of the developing world. The causes for poverty and hunger are varied and complex, but experts concur that sustainable agricultural development will be critical in meeting future world food needs, reducing poverty and protecting the environment. To further increase agricultural productivity equitably-in an environmentally sustainable manner in the face of diminishing land and water resources-is a highly challenging task ahead. Knowledge-based approaches including transgenic crops and genomics can provide powerful solutions enhance food security: by improving local agricultural productivity, minimizing the use of chemical inputs such as pesticides and fertilizers, insulating crops against losses from diseases and pests, curtailing post-harvest losses including food spoilage, improving food quality and nutrition, increasing crop tolerance to stress factors such as drought and problem soils, and through the production of 'value-added' products. Biotechnology can expedite the development of new varieties and also enhance marginal crops like millets, 







Document Number: 4408
the world enjoy the same safe, bountiful food supply that we do in the United States. Despite major strides in combating hunger over the last 30 years, 800 million people go to bed daily on an empty stomach, and there are 40,000 hunger-related deaths every day. This 'silent holocaust' is 'unconscionable', pleads Ismail Serageldin of the World Bank. Mahatma Gandhi, the apostle of peace, called hunger the greatest of all violence. Worldwide, one in three children is underweight, and one in five is stunted due to undernourishment. Nearly 40,000 people - half of them children - die every day due to hunger related causes. By 2020, the number of undernourished could well surpass 1 billion. In many developing countries, where subsistence farmers eke out meager livings, and the ability to provide enough food for survival is often less than assured, the vital importance of staple crops such as rice, sweetpotato and cassava cannot be overstated. In many places, the loss of a crucial crop to pests, diseases or weather can mean the difference between life or death, straining the resources and threatening the well-being of entire communities. In rapid succession, the leading scientists around the world are attesting to the 







Document Number: 3834
anti-biotech activists, who have nothing but fear-mongering and pseudo science to support their demands. Frito-Lay recently told its corn producers to stop planting corn that is genetically improved to ward off harmful insects. Even though there was very little consumer demand for such an action, the company apparently feared a food scare generated by activists and took the step anyway. But the move was not enough to placate activists, who still threaten action until the company does everything necessary to declare its products free of genetically modified foods. There is no science to support the ban of insect-resistant corn, which forced Frito-Lay's producers to revert to chemical insecticides. Two much larger grain purchasers have already reversed anti-biotech decisions: Archer Daniels Midland, one of the nation's largest purchasers and exporters of grain, and Cargill, the nation's largest grain merchant. Cargill declared "it's business as usual'' when it followed ADM's lead and began accepting transgenic grains again. These hold-the-line decisions are extremely important in blunting the pseudo-science of the activist community and moving toward biotechnology's potential to help feed a hungry world. The anti-biotech community claims there are "10 reasons why biotechnology will not ensure food security, protect the environment and reduce 







Document Number: 8423
deserve better of Mankind, and do more essential service to his country, than the whole race of politicians put together." - The King of Brobdingnag, Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift, 1727. "I believe that we have now reached a moral and ethical watershed beyond which we venture into realms that belong to God, and to God alone. Apart from certain medical applications, what actual right do we have to experiment, Frankenstein-like, with the very stuff of life? ... " - Prince Charles Windsor, heir to the British throne (Windsor, 1998). Throughout the history of humankind, there have been those who have embraced change and those who have clung to the old ways because they felt at least the risks were known. Few Edisons or Einsteins were properly recognized during their lifetime. And, since feeding ourselves was the primary occupation of mankind for most of our recorded and prerecorded history, changes in food production have been accepted slowly. The first person to try to scratch out a garden most assuredly heard derisive laughter as the mighty hunters headed off in pursuit of meat. So, we should not be surprised that eons of history are being replayed as we enter the era 







Document Number: 510
once remarked that India will be on its path to progress when the word `profit' stops being a dirty word. It is in our best interests today to face the reality that the world is increasingly getting globalised whether any nation likes it or not. We must therefore work towards helping India benefit from changing realities, rather than continue to hug old illusions. It is quite clear now that the Information Technology (IT) industry is fostering globalisation, resulting in vast benefits to our economy. The process of convergence of voice, data and video that we are witnessing today as the IT revolution progresses by leaps and bounds makes that apparent each passing day. Although India prides itself in its software exports, its market share of the global software market is still minuscule. Here again, if misguided policies that led to the exit of IBM in 1977 had not happened, India would have been an even bigger player in IT today. Similarly, the increasing privatisation of the consumer electronics, automobile, telecommunication, food processing, hospitality and transportation sectors have already energised these sectors. The `trickle down' effect is clearly impacting the under-served sections of the Indian society. Indian agriculture has also begun 







Document Number: 684
to consult the published work. Readers will also find complete tables and endnotes in the bound volume.) Highlights... A century's worth of genetic improvements in plants and animals have made food more abundant and less expensive today than at any other time in history. Continuing improvements in productivity will be necessary to feed the world in the 2st Century without having to bring millions of acres of undeveloped wilderness into agricultural use. ... Despite opposition from ideological environmentalists, biotechnology - the next step in the continuum of genetic improvement - has been endorsed by countless scientific and health organizations, including the American Medical Association, the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. ... Around the world, more than 70 bioengineered plant varieties are grown commercially on approximately 109 million acres, in countries ranging from the United States, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Mexico, and South Africa. ... Bioengineered varieties of corn, cotton, potato, soybean, and others, are raising yields, reducing pesticide use, conserving topsoil, and making other contributions to environmental protection. ... Biotechnology is helping scientists breed plants that mature faster, tolerate drought or extremes of heat and cold, and have improved nutrition. 







Document Number: 7331
in recent months have signed a statement of support. Expert panels with the World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have made strong statements supporting the safety of the crops. Numerous scientific societies are passing proclamations in support.Recently, six national science academies (U.S., Britain, Brazil, China, India and Mexico) and the Third World Academy of Sciences, issued a joint statement, not only endorsing biotechnology but urging companies, governments and charities to extend it to the developing world. The need is greatThe need for new technologies is great, as the seven academics describe: Today, there are some 800 million people who do not have access to sufficient food to meet their needs. Malnutrition plays a significant role in half of the nearly 12 million deaths each year of children under five in developing countries. In addition to lack of food, deficiencies in micro-nutrients (especially vitamin A, iodine and iron) are widespread. Global climate change and alterations in land use will exacerbate the problems of regional production and demands for food. In developing countries about 650 million of the poorest people live in rural areas where the local production 







Document Number: 7894
responses, which he compiled and edited with the help of Andrew Apel and Gregory Conko. Below are the 31 questions, along with answers from members of AgBioWorld. 1. QUESTIONS ABOUT FOOD SECURITY2. QUESTIONS ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION3. QUESTIONS ABOUT HUMAN HEALTH 4. QUESTIONS ABOUT SOCIO-ECONOMIC ISSUESQUESTIONS ABOUT FOOD SECURITYQ 1: Is genetic engineering (GE) the only way of increasing food production?No, it is not. It is only one of the tools we can use to increase food production. However, it is a powerful tool that will significantly increase our ability to produce the quantities of food that our growing world population will need.Whether the genetic alteration is done haphazardly by selective breeding or in a more systematic way by directly altering the genome, increasing the useable food content of an organism requires some form of genetic engineering. For grains and oilseed crops, increasing food production most often means the ability to produce better yields under the same conditions or, more generally, the ability to better resist weeds, insects and diseases. Many important improvements have been achieved by ordinary breeding, but it is a slow process. Given the rate at which the demand for food is likely to increase in future years, 







Document Number: 5739
They are sowing the seeds of fear in the minds of the Indian public through well-orchestrated campaigns, and attempting to intimidate and influence policy makers by twisting facts about biotechnology and vilifying its proponents. Test trials of genetically improved cotton have been burnt down without regard to what their farmer owners think, amidst relentless rumour campaigns suggesting that multinational seed companies are conspiring to dominate India's agriculture. These self-styled "eco-terrorists" with their anti-science and anti-technology agenda seem bent on reversing India's path to agricultural progress and ensuring that Indian farmers are deprived of the latest technological developments. They are clearly hypocritical in their stance because while personally enjoying the technological innovations from the West they are out to deny the Indian farmer the most radical technology that could help him make a quantum leap over his handicaps and transform life for him and his family in less than a generation. Many of these activists in India have strong links with environmental group such as Greenpeace. Their opposition to biotechnology in India is self serving and is clearly against the national interests of India. For instance, the Rural Advancement Foundation International (RAFI) of Canada is at the forefront in opposing biotechnology 







Document Number: 856
this: Who am I going to believe, those who oppose biotechnology or those who support it? Last month in Boston, 1,500 to 2,000 people, many dressed as Frankenstein monsters, butterflies and ears of corn, demonstrated outside the Biotechnology Industry Organization meeting. Inside, about 8,000 scientists, researchers, physicians and industry representatives exchanged ideas and discussed research on ways to improve crop yields, reduce pesticide usage, improve nutrition and develop cures for disease. The evidence On April 5, the National Academy of Sciences issued a report which stated that there is no evidence suggesting foods produced through biotechnology are any less safe than conventional crops. In fact, the scientific panel concluded, growing such crops could have environmental advantages over other crops. Another report was issued on April 13 by the Basic Research Subcommittee of the House Committee on Science. It makes a very strong case for the safety of biotechnology and warns against needless over regulation, which could delay development of a technology with great potential for good. Around the world, more than 2,000 scientists, including two Nobel Prize winners, have signed a petition in support of genetically modified crops.Overwhelmingly, scientific organizations, professional societies, and inter national bodies such as the World 







Document Number: 2552
developing biotechnology today. Instead, the U.K. is known worldwide as the nation most responsible for impeding introduction of this technology. Those of us who work in agricultural biotechnology know that it has the potential to solve many of the food production problems of the world, whose population will increase by at least 50% in the next 30 years or so. Biotechnology can improve nutrition among developing nations. It can help fight disease by delivering vaccines in common foods such as bananas. It can improve crop yields, thus preventing natural areas from being converted to agriculture to meet global food demand, and it can drastically reduce the use of chemical pesticides. Biotechnology has the potential to save and improve millions of lives worldwide. Yet many in the United Kingdom, which produced scientific icons such as Edward Jenner, Maurice Wilkins, Francis Crick, Alexander Fleming and Charles Darwin, demonize this new technology as ''Frankenstein food.'' Who would have predicted it? Certainly not Jenner, the 18th century physician who discovered the vaccine that eventually eradicated smallpox. By injecting a cattle virus into people, he prevented them from getting the disease. His work set the course for the science of immunology, which could be further 







Document Number: 2622
activist organizations spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to promote fear through anti-science newspaper ads, 1.3 billion people, who live on less than $1 a day, care only about finding their next day's meal. Biotechnology is one of the best hopes for solving their food needs today, when we have 6 billion people, and certainly in the next 30 to 50 years, when there will be 9 billion on the globe. Those people, who battle weather, pests and plant disease to try to raise enough for their families, can benefit tremendously from biotechnology, and not just from products created by big corporations. Public-sector institutions are conducting work on high-yield rice, virus-resistant sweet potato and more healthful strains of cassava, crops that are staples in developing countries. But none of these benefits will be realized if Western-generated fears about biotechnology halt research funding and close borders to exported products. Public perception is being manipulated by fringe groups opposed to progress and taken advantage of by politicians favoring trade protectionism. There is no safety reason for this. Foods produced through biotechnology are just as safe, if not safer, than conventionally produced foods because they are rigorously tested. David Aaron of the U.S. 







Document Number: 9486
risk of starvation, efforts by the U.N.'s World Food Programme were stifled by the global &quot;GM&quot; food controversy. Food aid, containing kernels of bioengineered corn from the United States, was initially rejected by all six governments, even though the very same corn has been consumed daily by hundreds of millions in North and South America and has been distributed by the World Food Programme throughout Africa since 1996.Four of those governments later accepted the grain on condition that it be milled to prevent planting, but Zimbabwe and Zambia continue to refuse to this day, and recently Angola also joined this group. Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa said his people would rather starve than eat bioengineered food, which he described as &quot;poison.&quot; The actually starving Zambian people felt differently, though. One news report after another described scenes of hungry Zambians rioting and overpowering armed guards trying to release tens of thousands of tons of the corn locked away in warehouses by the government.This is one of the tragic consequences of global fearmongering about recombinant DNA technology and bioengineered crops. Although many varieties that are of use to resource-poor farmers in less developed countries are at very early stages of the development process, 







Document Number: 2750
its needs, and the fates of human society and agricultural crops have been inextricably linked and mutually interdependent ever since. Agriculture allowed humans to abandon hunter-gatherer behavior, in turn spawning broader economic and cultural development. And the suitability of certain plant species for food or fiber&#151;which provided the proximate cause for their eventual domestication&#151;let those organisms survive and thrive far beyond their original ranges. Our ancestors chose a few once-wild plants and gradually modified them simply by selecting those with the largest, tastiest or most robust offspring for propagation. In that way, organisms have been altered so greatly over the millennia that traits present in existing populations of cultivated rice, wheat, corn, soy, potatoes, tomatoes and many others have very little in common with their ancestors. Wild tomatoes and potatoes contain very potent toxins, for example. But today's cultivated varieties have been modified to produce healthy and nutritious food.Breeding safe and useful crops from wild plants was a remarkable feat, given how poorly those first plant breeders understood the dynamics of selection and heritability. It was not until the 19th century that plant genetic modification became anything other than a hit or miss affair. Gregor Mendel's discovery of the principles 







Document Number: 1054
varieties. The move will undoubtedly be ridiculed as a cynical attempt by Americans to force GM products down the throats of skeptical Europeans. Yet, while the U.S. is surely motivated by a parochial desire to aid American farmers, filing such a complaint will have benefits far beyond U.S. borders. The biggest beneficiaries are sure to be resource-poor farmers in less developed countries.By now, many readers will be familiar with the story of Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa who, last autumn, rejected some 23,000 metric tons of food aid in the midst of a two-year-long drought that threatened the lives of over two million Zambians.President Mwanawasa's public explanation was that the GM maize from the United States was &quot;poison.&quot; But, other Zambian government officials conceded that the bigger concern was for future corn exports to the EU market. If even a little of the food aid were diverted to seed stock, it could threaten the exportability of the entire Zambian maize crop for many years to come.Zambia is not unique. European GM restrictions have had other, similar, consequences throughout the developing world. Thai government officials have been warned by European importers not to authorize any GM rice varieties. Uganda has stopped research 







Document Number: 5824
European corn borer, and its conventional, nonmodified counterpart were evaluated in 4 separate trials to verify substantial equivalence in feeding value and animal performance. Thirty-six individually kept laying hens and 3 replicates of 94 broiler chickens each, assigned to 12 cages, were fed 2 different hen and broiler diets containing either 60% conventional or 60% Bt176 corn. The nutrient compositions of the 2 corn hybrids and the 2 corn diets revealed no major differences. Furthermore, metabolism and performance data revealed no significant differences between the birds that received the conventional, nonmodified corn, and those that received the modified corn diets. The detection of the genetic modification, by PCR, in feed obtained from insect-resistant Bt corn, in tissues and products from animals fed Bt corn is described. In all evaluated chicken tissues of muscle, liver, and spleen, the corn-chloroplast ivr gene fragment was amplified. It can be deduced from these findings and from other studies that the transfer of DNA fragments into the body is a normal process that takes place constantly. Nevertheless, no recombinant plant DNA fragments such as recombinant bla or cry1A(b) fragments could be found. Bt-gene specific constructs from the Bt corn were not detected in any of 







Document Number: 9292
biotechnology techniques. That report makes a series of claims regarding bioengineered crops that is not supported by the depth and breadth of extensive scientific and economic data collected in laboratory tests, field trials and commercial cultivation over the past two decades. The following report from the AgBioWorld Foundation is a point-by-point refutation of those assertions. Myth 1. Activists say: &quot;GM crops failed to deliver promised benefits.&quot; FACTS: Crops improved through biotechnology enjoy farmer satisfaction levels in the high 90% ranges, and these new varieties have penetrated the market at rates never before seen in agriculture. The reasons are very simple: Despite the desperate denials of activists, these crops deliver value to farmers, including lower overall costs and more efficient methods for controlling insect pests, weeds and diseases with reduced environmental impacts. This is why the overwhelming majority of farmers have freely chosen to plant biotech improved crops year after year once they try them. As a direct result of the introduction of biotech improved crops, pesticide use has been dramatically reduced, and herbicide use has shifted from older, narrow spectrum and higher toxicity compounds to the newer generation of broader spectrum lower impact formulas (see Gianessi et al. studies at 







Document Number: 2847
academia and the biotech industry), I am struck by how a small group of Indian activists (with strong Western connections) opposed to biotechnology have been making headlines virtually unopposed. They are on the warpath against genetically improved crops. And through well-orchestrated campaigns are sowing the seeds of fear in the minds of the Indian public. Their goal is clearly to intimidate policy makers by twisting facts about biotechnology and vilifying its proponents. Fields trials of genetically improved crops have been burnt without regard to the views of their farmer-owners and some of the most absurd and wild rumours about the risks of biotechnology have been meticulously spread with appropriate sound bites.Strangely, neither the media nor intellectuals from outside the scientific community have chosen to challenge thebasis of such claims. Risk is essentially a function of the nature of a product, and not the process employed in developing the product, according to Andre de Kathan of the University of Hanover, Germany. Products from biotechnology are no less safe than traditionally bred crops. In fact, they may even be safer as they represent small, precise alterations with the introduction of genes whose biology is well understood. Often these genes are derived from 







Document Number: 7265
two million hectares when they were first introduced in 1996, making biotechnology the most rapidly adopted technology in the history of agriculture. But this phenomenal success has been a double-edged sword. Despite the certified safety of biotechnology-derived foods, opposition by environmental activists has undermined consumer confidence in the new gene technology. Food companies such as McDonald's and Frito-Lay are now asking their suppliers not to use bioengineered potatoes and corn. Many European countries are avoiding imports of bioengineered corn and soybeans entirely. Meanwhile, the industry has responded with a public relations campaign of its own. The press releases and TV commercials extol potential benefits of biofoods, such as better nutrition and ameliorating the problem of world hunger. Although biotechnology clearly provides ammunition for improving food production, the fact is that right now there is little industry research on food staples of importance to the developing world. It's time for the industry to put its money-actually its patents-where its mouth is. Nobody should expect Monsanto to end world hunger. That's like counting on Microsoft to wipe out illiteracy. The biotech industry has spent billions of dollars developing a powerful technology for redesigning crops to evade pests and diseases, and to improve 







Document Number: 7690
bottom of the document] August 10, 2004After reviewing the April, 2004, report by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) entitled Regulatory Regimen for Genetically Modified Foods, The Way Ahead, we were disappointed that the ICMR overlooked the extensive scientific knowledge base supporting the food, feed and environmental safety of biotechnology-derived crops and foods, and economic and environmental and benefits to farmers and consumers.The ICMR acknowledged that biotech crops are important for improving Indian agricultural productivity, through improvements in stress tolerance, soil nutrient utilization, nutritional enhancement, pest resistance and herbicide tolerance, and that biotech crops have the potential to improve food quality, nutrition and health. However, they ignored the extensive safety assessments and expert analyses that have accompanied the approval of the current biotech crops.Instead, ICMR stated &quot;there is limited scientific evidence regarding their toxicity or health risks, the methodology used for assessing the risks is not robust enough or sensitive enough, and the molecular and genetic effects of the technology are unpredictable in nature.&quot; Respectfully, these views are not shared by the dozens of scientific and regulatory authorities all over the world that have reviewed and accepted the extensive and growing base of published scientific information that established or 







Document Number: 3392
and that biotechnology clearly offers solutions to certain agricultural problems. Ironically, it also exposes the consequences of regulatory foot-dragging that sadly spawned this proliferation of 'unapproved' seeds. The overall safety of using Bt genes to control pests with genetically-enhanced plants is not in question here as millions of acres of Bt crops are being grown worldwide without any problem to health or the environment. For the last six years, the Indian seed company Mahyco has been testing insect-resistant Bt cotton while following the strict regulatory protocols. It spent a great deal of money in research, development and testing, waited patiently for six years, and endured much media and activist attention. As part of the approvals process, the company has conducted over 100 field trials with Bt cotton in different agro- climatic zones, and has done extensive nutritional and bio-safety studies under the directives issued by different regulatory authorities, and in close cooperation with many national scientific institutions. Imagine its bewilderment at being usurped by a little known company that, going by media reports, has been clandestinely selling unapproved Bt cotton seeds to farmers in three States for the last three years. It has marketed the seeds under the guise of 







Document Number: 8752
rebuttal.==Myth 1: GMOs are not needed to "feed the world". People are hungry because they are poor, not because there's not enough food. And if they can't afford to buy conventional food, they'll hardly be able to afford GM food.No. People are hungry because they cannot grow enough food to feed themselves locally. This is for a variety of reasons. For example insects devastate their crops and they cannot afford insecticides to protect the crops. If they were to grow a GM Bt crop then they would get insecticide for free and be able to produce more food. In this way can GM food help feed the poor. Another reason is losses during storage of the grains due to insect attack or rotting of the food in storage. This is because the poor cannot afford the expensive silos and treatments required to reduce losses of this nature. If the crops were GM they could be made to resist insect damage and spoilage. In this way GM food can help feed the poor. Another reason is losses of food due to disease - poor farmers (and many wealthy ones) cannot afford to spray fungicides on their crops. If crops were made 







Document Number: 4846
plants is the platform on which all crop improvement activity is built. Crop scientists have long recognised the value of biodiversity. They also understand that its benefit can only be realised by utilising existing genetic variations to develop useful crop varieties - and not by the invention of reactive rheto-ric such as "biopiracy", "biosurveillance" and "bioplunder" that one often reads in the writings of armchair pundits or activists. Crop and forest biodiversity is under far more threat today from other human activities necessitated by population pressures such as increasing urbanisation and clearing of forests, than from improved crop varieties, be they conventional or from the use of biotechnology techniques. PaternalisticThe preservation of biodiversity will be critical to the sustained success of agriculture. Increasing economic growth spurred by genetically improved crops will provide much-needed resources in the efforts to conserve biodiversity. Genetically improved crops are no more a threat to biodiversity than conventionally bred crops and, in fact, are even better as they exert less pressure to expand the area under agriculture because of their high productivity. Further, improved tools such as cryopreservation developed by biotechnologists will help in the ex-situ preservation of biodiversity, while creative techniques such as gene shuffling 







Document Number: 2317
continue to regenerate its life sources only as long as we and all the peoples of the world do our part to conserve its natural resources.&quot; Recent United Nations reports give a snapshot of the challenges confronting us in 2003: The U.N. Food &amp; Agriculture Organization (FAO) expects the world's population to grow to more than eight billion in 2030. The FAO report, World Agriculture: Towards 2015/30, projects that global food production must increase by 60 percent to accommodate the estimated population growth, close nutrition gaps, and allow for dietary changes over the next three decades. A U.N. World Water Development report released this year shows that reserves of clean, fresh water are quickly diminishing, and that as many as seven billion people in 60 countries could face a water shortage by 2050.How can we confront these challenges? One way is by placing the best possible resource management tools in the hands of farmers around the world. Farmers, after all, are stewards of millions of acres of precious land. The decisions they make with regard to agricultural production influence surface and ground water, air quality, and soil health. Unfortunately, farmers are often caught in a web of political and ecological 







Document Number: 8300
is an intense debate about their value and safety.Such concerns about the risks of GM technology must be balanced against its enormous benefits - far from causing any new food safety problems, biotechnology has already demonstrated its potential in enhancing the nutritional quality of our food and in reducing harmful toxic compounds that exist in our food.Understanding agricultural history is a good starting point in alleviating people's unease about GM foods - humans have been modifying crops for thousands of years, and without human care many of today's crops would cease to exist. We should recognise the positive impact that GM technology can have on the environment - and that if problems arise, we can deal with them. Most problems raised by science can be solved by science itself. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------'Whoever could make two ears of corn, or two blades of grass grow upon a spot of ground where only one grew before would deserve better of mankind, and do more essential service to his country, than the whole race of politicians put together.' - The King of Brobdingnag in Gulliver's Travels, Jonathan Swift, 1727 'I believe that we have now reached a moral and ethical watershed beyond which we venture 







Document Number: 7817
impact on society. The tone of the debates in Europe and India indicate the need to correctly inform the media, the public and farmers about the diversity issues arising from new technologies. Scientists, thinkers, ethicists, sociologists, economists, journalists, environmentalists and citizens need to come together to debate emerging issues in a civilised and responsible manner, and to foster creative ideas to enable the progress of the humankind. This would also ensure that collective of voices of reason will prevail in the face of paranoid outbursts and prevent destructive anti-science sentiments from spreading amongst the public. Such an informed debate is particularly important in India which, unlike Europe, can ill afford to miss the biotech revolution in agriculture. We cannot forget that India was in dire straits on the food front in the '60s. It was only the application of science to agriculture that quickly provided the country with food security, despite the concerns raised then about high-yielding varieties and hybrids. India just cannot afford to listen today to 'science-bashing' activists with pseudo-scientific rhetoric. India was once a great scientific powerhouse and made enormous scientific contribution to the world. Albert Einstein once said: "We owe a lot to Indians who taught 







Document Number: 7481
crop productivity; cut down the use of chemical inputs on the farm; empower our crop plants to be more tolerant to stress such as drought and salinity; develop new value-added products; improve the nutritive value of food; enhance the profitability of farming; and thus overall, improve the quality of life for both farmers and consumers in this state. Biotechnology is clearly the most revolutionary tool to impact agricultural research since the discovery of genetics by Mendel.Many of the important crops in Karnataka have diseases and pests that are taking away much of the harvest. Examples include: dieback disease of the pepper, leaf curl virus on tomato, blast of rice and ragi; bunchy top of banana and borers on avare.Little ammunitionConventional plant breeding has little ammunition to deal with these problems in an expedient and effective manner. These problems can be significantly minimised in an ecologically-friendly manner with the development of genetically reprogrammed seeds designed to resist these disease attacks, while minimising or even eliminating costly and hazardous pesticide sprays.With no more arable land available for agricultural expansion in Karnataka, enhancing stress tolerance in crop plants will permit productive farming on currently unproductive lands. Abiotic factors such as drought, heat, cold, 







Document Number: 8980
food production and thus keeping the Malthusian fears at bay. Nevertheless, we still face daunting challenge of hunger, poverty and malnutrition that will only get worse as the population increases in absolute numbers. Recent advances in crop science, however, provide us with a new window of opportunity to deal with the issue of food security. Genetic engineering is clearly the most revolutionary tool to impact agricultural research since the discovery of genetics by Mendel. Sensible integration of biotechnology in research can accelerate the pace of agricultural improvement and is of considerable relevance to an agrarian country like India. Transforming India's agriculture is critical not only to deal with the issue of hunger and poverty but also to strengthen the sector that is so fundamental to India's existence. The 'green revolution' is showing signs of fatigue and farm productivity increases are now flattening. There are serious constraints to productivity in Indian agriculture because of small holdings, the subsistence nature of farming, vagaries of the weather, limited water, poor land condition and stress factors such as drought, heat and saline soil conditions. Much of the crop yield is lost due to disease, pests, and weeds while a considerable proportion of harvested fruits 







Document Number: 9242
problem. There are risks inherent in any technological intervention. Human beings down the centuries have learnt to weigh the perceived and real risks against the benefits of emerging technologies, and have responsibly integrated these to foster progress. For instance, the use of electricity, automobiles, air travel and even immunisation all involve some risks, but this has not prevented humankind from benefiting from them. But public acceptance is driven by perception of the risk rather than the physical reality. What we need is a sensible and responsible approach to integrating biotechnology in Indian agricultural research while ensuring that any risk posed by this technology is kept to a minimum through rigorous scientific approach. We do not need militant and violent paths in keeping the biotechnology away from Indians as this will only ensure continued backwardness of our Indian agriculture. Genetically improved products are subjected to intensive testing, while conventional varieties have never been subjected to any such regulation for food safety or environmental impact. Traditional methods of developing crops involve wild crosses with weedy relatives of crop plants. Hundreds of unknown genes, of whose traits we have little knowledge, are introduced into these food crops through these conventional plant breeding methods. 







Document Number: 6656
a cusp; we have reached a point where new agricultural technologies have matured to the point where they can be used by developing nations for their own betterment, rather than remaining in the hands of the most developed nations, with strong and well-funded research programs. Putting well-developed technology in the hands of those who seek development is called technology transfer, and that is the focus of this conference. Several years ago, an identical conference could not have accomplished much; now, it could be a turning point. And that is because we have only recently seen that technology transfer -- especially when it comes to biotechnology -- works.In fact, biotechnology has proven more beneficial in developing nations than in agriculture-intensive North America. To be sure, genetically enhanced corn, soybeans, cotton and canola have spared farmers the expense of millions of pounds of crop protection chemicals, and have relieved the environment of the burden of those chemicals. This increases profits and food quality in a highly responsible manner.In developing nations, the picture is quite different.Insect attacks on cotton in India are far more damaging than in the U.S., often destroying more than half the crop each year. Where cotton engineered to resist 







Document Number: 4356
Science and Technology. These international leaders are meeting to discuss the critical role science and technology can play in improving agricultural productivity in developing countries. Ultimately, the goal is to alleviate world hunger and poverty in an environmentally sustainable way. However, hundreds of misguided people also will likely travel to Sacramento to protest a variety of issues, including the use of biotechnology in agriculture. The theme of their gathering will be to promulgate fear based on unsubstantiated and misleading information. On behalf of the poor and starving in the developing world, we urge the conference attendees to focus on the science and on each other. All too often, the voices of protest drown out sound science and experience. Anti-biotechnology groups have a history of lobbing emotionally charged allegations, but the reality is that none of these groups has actually provided any credible scientific evidence that would call into question the safety of foods derived from biotech crops on the market or the demonstrated benefits to the environment. Instead, anti-biotechnology groups use their rhetoric and allegations to advance their agenda, not to provide factual, informed perspectives. Unfortunately, sometimes they prevail to the detriment of the environment and the poorest and hungriest 







Document Number: 4788
becoming ill. Genetically modified food is less dangerous than stairs, bicycles or medicine. It's even safer than water. This is the assertion of the American experts C. S. Prakash, Professor at Tuskegee University, and Andrew Apel, editor for Agbiotech reporter. Prakash will be visiting Stockholm this week for various meetings, including with experts at the Ministry of Agriculture. The two experts are of the opinion that biotechnology allows for the environmentally friendly plants that provide rich and nutritious harvests in the developing world' As the home of the Nobel Prize, Sweden is justly proud of its heritage and its commitment to scientific progress. For this reason, Sweden's place in the debate over agricultural biotechnology can be influential and inspiring for those who want to understand the value of this science. It can perhaps best be understood in the spirit of what Alfred Bernhard Nobel expressed clearly in his will, saying that the prize he established should go to those who "have conferred the greatest benefit to mankind." Do genetically enhanced crops confer benefits to mankind? Some consider this question debatable. We know that crops benefit mankind, since they feed us. This has been known for 10,000 years, so for the 







Document Number: 1159
life span--arguably the most important indicator of quality of life--has increased steadily in the past century in almost every country. Even in many less developed countries, life spans have doubled over the past few decades. Despite massive population growth, from 3 billion to more than 6 billion people since 1950, the global malnutrition rate decreased in that period from 38 percent to 18 percent. India and China, two of the world's most populous and rapidly industrializing countries, have quadrupled their grain production.The record of agricultural progress during the past century speaks for itself. Countries that embraced superior agricultural technologies have brought unprecedented prosperity to their people, made food vastly more affordable and abundant, helped stabilize farm yields, and reduced the destruction of wild lands. The productivity gains from G.M. crops, as well as improved use of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, allowed the world's farmers to double global food output during the last 50 years, on roughly the same amount of land, at a time when global population rose more than 80 percent. Without these improvements in plant and animal genetics and other scientific developments, known as the Green Revolution, we would today be farming on every square inch of arable 







Document Number: 9871
use of synthetic chemical pesticides in both industrialized and less developed countries. These advances are critical in a world where natural resources are finite and where hundreds of millions of people suffer from hunger and malnutrition.Critics dismiss such claims as nothing more than corporate public relations puffery. However, while it is true that most commercially available bioengineered plants were designed for farmers in the industrialized world, the increasing adoption of transgenic varieties by under-developed countries over the past few years demonstrates their broader applicability.Globally, transgenic varieties are now grown on more than 58.7 million hectares (145 million acres) in such countries as Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Philippines, South Africa, and the United States. Nearly one-quarter of that hectarage is farmed by over 5 million resource-poor farmers in less developed countries.Why? Because they see many of the same benefits that farmers in industrialized nations do.The first generation of transgenic crops - approximately 50 different varieties of maize, cotton, potato, squash, soybean, rapeseed, and others - were designed to aid in protecting crops from insect pests, weeds, and plant diseases.As much as 40 percent of crop productivity in Africa and Asia and about 20 percent in the industrialized 







Document Number: 1141
biotechnology-derived crops have concluded that commercial biotechnology-derived crops and foodstuffs are as safe as conventional crops and foodstuffs, and deliver important economic and environmental benefits to farmers and society at large. Facing constant allegations that biotech crops are unsafe, anti-biotechnology groups are counting on those in the scientific community with experience and knowledge of 'genetically modified' or 'bioengineered' crops to be silent. Sound science not silence must prevail.Dozens of scientific and regulatory authorities all over the world have reviewed and accepted the extensive and growing base of published scientific information that upholds the safety and benefits of biotech crops and foods. Despite this, agenda driven scientists and anti-biotechnology organizations continue to spread unsubstantiated and misleading information in an effort to further their cause.Anti-biotechnology groups have a history of lobbing emotionally charged allegations, but the reality is that none of these groups has actually provided any credible scientific evidence that would question the safety of foods derived from biotech crops or the demonstrated benefits to the environment. Instead, anti-biotechnology groups use their rhetoric and allegations to advance their agenda, not to provide factual, informed perspectives.The reality is that crops developed through plant biotechnology are among the most well-tested, well-characterized, and well-regulated 







Document Number: 1437
when President Abraham Lincoln initially understood its importance by establishing the first science-based labeling initiative to protect our nation's consumers from misleading marketing campaigns, food safety scares and snake oil salesmen who preyed on the unwitting. The sound-science legacy is alive and well. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration's recent announcement reaffirming the safety of foods derived from biotechnology, while adding requirements for mandatory notification of new products and allowing for voluntary labeling of these products, is one to be applauded. Rather than bowing to the pressure tactics of the anti-biotech crowd, the FDA has reaffirmed the current science-based approval process. This decision continues a long tradition of ensuring that Americans have the safest food supply in the world and provides consumers with the means to make informed choices in food purchases. The scientific community overwhelmingly agrees that the FDA's actions are the kind of responsible oversight consumers should expect. The biotechnology products approved through the current process have a record of safe consumption, and this enhanced, more effective process will only strengthen the benefits America's consumers enjoy and deserve. Through biotechnology, farmers and consumers benefit from crops with traits that nature has developed in other organisms -- disease resistance, 







Document Number: 853
These events are of special interest to Central Massachusetts because of the growing number of people and companies involved in biotechnology in the region. The event also is attracting the anti-technology activists who have made careers out of opposing the work of these scientists. Active organizations from around the world are sending their paid executives to Boston. 'Street Theater'Some of the same people who sprayed urine and bleach on Seattle police officers will likely be among them. The antis are planning a public rally, parade and "street theater" to counter the exchange of scientific ideas that will go on inside the convention. If you happen to see any of these people - they will be the ones dressed as butterflies, Frankenstein monsters of ears of corn - here are some questions you might please consider asking them: Why do you people build opposition on simple laboratory studies, but pay no attention to extensive field studies that disprove the laboratory study? For example, a laboratory study showed that pollen from genetically modified corn could harm Monarch butterfly larvae if the larvae ate enough pollen. But actual field studies conducted last summer by about 20 researchers from several universities showed that Monarch 







Document Number: 9370
method for developing plants that can help farmers provide for a more abundant, higher-quality and nutritious food supply. How does "modern biotechnology" differ from traditional breeding? Farmers have used selective breeding for centuries to improve taste and to produce new and more healthful foods. While traditional methods randomly transferred a wide range of genetic characteristics between plants over many generations of breeding, modern biotechnology makes it possible to develop plants with specific characteristics with greater understanding, speed and precision. How widely is biotechnology used today? Biotechnology has been widely accepted by farmers in the United States. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, biotech varieties planted in 2002 are expected to account for 71 percent of cotton planted, 74 percent of all soybeans and 32 percent of corn. And, according to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications, more than 109 million acres of biotech crops were planted worldwide in 2000 - and many developing world countries, including India, China and Brazil have been rapid adopters. What are the nutritional benefits of biotechnology? Food biotechnology offers a number of benefits for consumers, developing countries and the environment. Foods have been produced through biotechnology that stay fresh longer, resist 







Document Number: 9128
existing farmland. According to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications, "Biotechnology &hellip; is no longer viewed as merely a desirable element but an essential one in a multiple thrust global strategy for food security."Did you know&hellip;Today, there are more than 826 million undernourished people in the developing world. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that 13 percent of the world's population lacks access to adequate amounts of food.World Health Organization estimates that malnutrition causes more than half of all childhood deaths in the developing world. Each year, 10 percent of all children die from starvation. Two out of five children in the developing world experience stunted growth and one in three is underweight.According to the Worldwatch Institute, 60 percent of all newborns in India would be in intensive care if they had been born in California.Nutritionally enhanced foods Biotech researchers have already developed and are field-testing rice enhanced with beta-carotene, a precursor to vitamin A, which is important because rice is a primary diet staple in the developing world. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization recently stated: "The potential to create rice with an enhanced micronutrient content illustrates one way in which genetic engineering 







Document Number: 2823
the world have endorsed&hellip;scientific information that upholds the safety and benefits of biotech crops and foods,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;The reality is that crops developed through plant biotechnology are among the most well-tested, well-characterized and well-regulated food and fiber products ever developed.&rdquo; This Food is Safe The Globe and Mail Robert Wagner12/6/2003 Robert Wagner of Malaspina University College argues that since food in Canada is labeled for nutritional content or known allergens, and food produced using biotechnology is extensively tested and is the same as other foods in both of these areas, there is no reason for biotech labels. &ldquo;There is not a single proven case of harm from more than two trillion meals containing GM ingredients. That is safe food.&rdquo; GM Sugar Beet 'Far More Environmentally Friendly' New ScientistAndy Coghlan12/6/2003 Biotech sugar beet has more environmental benefits than conventional varieties, according to a new analysis that is the first to measure the wider impact of biotech crops, including their impacts on global warming, the ozone layer and aquatic life. "Overall, herbicide-resistant GM beet was 15 to 50 per cent better for the environment, depending on what impact was being measured," says Richard Phipps of the School of Agriculture at the 







Document Number: 1847
booklet tells the story of the massive expansion of cotton output over the last 10 years. Indian cotton production statistics this last decade Amidst the oilseed crisis, cotton is the only oilseeds crop that has shown a remarkable progress after the introduction of Bt cotton hybrids in 2002. In the last nine years, cottonseed has become an important source of oilseeds in the country. The production of cotton oil registered a three-fold increase from 0.46 million tons in 2002-03 to 1.20 million tons in 2010-11 (Table 3).  Summary. In this decade, 2002 to 2011, Bt cotton has been successfully used as a multiple purpose crop in three ways: in the form of edible oil as food for human consumption; de-oiled cake as an animal feed; and kapas for fiber. The production of cotton seed, and its byproducts as oil and meal, has increased manifold from 0.46 million tons in 2002-03 to 1.20 million tons in 2010-11. As a result, Bt cotton meal (de-oiled cake) contributes one third of the countrys total demand for animal feed, whereas cotton oil contributes 13.7% of total edible oil production for human consumption in the country  a significant contribution which offsets more than 







Document Number: 7861
particular importance in this context is the use of Genetically Modified Organisms outside contained facilities. Consequently, GMO safety research has been supported in successive Framework Programmes from 1985 to the present day. The pattern of development of this support is illustrated in the table below, which shows that over this 15-year period 81 projects have been supported. These projects have involved over 400 teams from many different disciplines and represent a combined Community financial contribution of about 70 million. Summaries of all these projects are contained in this review. This website overall provides a comprehensive review of the results of EC-supported research into the safety of Genetically Modified Organisms. It presents research carried out under successive EC Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development from 1985 (Biotechnology Action Programme) to 2000 (Fifth Framework Programme). The site is navigated by the sidebar to the left which contains links to research areas which include: Plants, Plant microbes, Biocontrol, Food , Bioremediation, Tools, Fish, Vaccines and these in turn link on to numerous different sub pages which are finally annotated with lists of papers supported with funding to the tune of millions of European taxpayers euros. For example the Food Link provides access 







Document Number: 4870
GE crops are tested for allergenicity according to regulations. But now, it seems, the opposite may be true. ;Can;t we use GMOs to eliminate allergies?; The New Scientist reports that one Japanese researcher and his team are having some success with that possibility. 20% of Japanese citizens succumb to a harsh reaction to Japanese Cedar pollen. Proteins within the pollen cause the body to react as it would to an invading pathogen, which is what defines an allergy. Treatment currently requires pollen injections, which can be dangerous. The new rice, which has been tested in mice and Macaques with no side effects, helps the body learn to tolerate the presence of those allergenic proteins. How does it work? It is genetically modified to contain the seven proteins within cedar pollen that provoke the most serious allergic reactions in people. Once in the intestine, the proteins damp down allergic responses through so-called ;oral tolerance;. This is a process, controlled by lymph nodes, by which the immune system ;learns; not to overreact to harmless foreign material such as food . To stop the proteins being digested before they can have their effect, the rice was engineered to produce them in the endoplasmic 







Document Number: 6759
we need improvements in what economists call total factor productivity of agriculture to meet the demands on the farm output that will rise considerably by the year 2050. To do this without increasing usage of inputs like water we need to increase the economic productivity of agriculture which is measured by a number called total factor productivity (TFP). The graph from the report shown here shows the gap between current improvements in agricultural productivity and the productivity needed to raise farm output by 200% in the year 2050 without increasing net farm demand on resources. There is a gap on this graph between necessary productivity improvement and actual current improvement rate, &nbsp;which means we have to dramatically increase the productivity of global agriculture by numerous innovative approaches if we are going to avoid massive expansion of water and other farm input useage by &nbsp;over the coming decades. A key passage from this new report, the 2010 GAP Report, follows: An Evergreen Revolution Simply put, the challenge is on the scale of supporting an Evergreen Revolution that is longer in duration and greener than the last. It will take innovations like those that spurred the remarkable increases in productivity in the 







Document Number: 2474
20 apples from the CSA . Unfortunately, I can only eat so many per day and they started to go bad before I got to eat them. Some of them got really nasty (as you can see to the right) within just a few days despite being in the fridge. Eating locally is great, but since apples only ripen once per year, and they spoil relatively fast, that means we only have fresh apples for a short time each year. That;s too bad, since apples are a wonderful crunchy snack loved by kids and adults that provide health benefits from their fiber and antioxidants . Shipping the apples from another place (like New Zealand) extends the time that apples are available, but shipping in refrigerated containers is expensive and results in greenhouse gas emissions, and we all know that those apples from far away just don;t taste as good as local ones. Scab Resistant Selection RS103-130. Image from &quot;Organic Production of a New Australian-bred Scab Resistant Apple in Queensland, Australia&quot; by Middleton, et. al There might be a way to have local apples available for a much longer time, as well as to have apples shipped in that use less 







Document Number: 3913
when he was rolled out by the anti-GM activists to try and prevent Australian farmers being given the freedom of choice on crop technology in late 2007. Fortunately this effort by the anti-technology lobby groups was unsuccessful. At most meetings organized by these activists that I have attended since that time ; and there have been quite a few ; stacks of his more recent book Genetic Roulette book were available for purchase, and I snapped up one early on. A brief perusal of the articles revealed the book was highly biased. Nowhere in the book was there a mention of any of the major good outcomes from GM technologysuch as decreased risk of cancer from mycotoxins in moldy corm (see this link for Chassy and Tribe;s efforts on this important topic at Academics Review ). On the topics that I was most familiar such as antibiotic resistance in bacteria, Genetic Roulette was deeply misleading and factually wrong. I decided late 2007 to investigate its claims thoroughly, little knowing how huge the task would be because as it turned out every one of the 65 claims in it ; better called myths; was distorted, misleading, plain wrong, or based on 







Document Number: 7446
BCRA1 and BCRA2 breast and ovarian cancer genes in humans. According to this press release , the ACLU charges ;that the patenting of two human genes linked to breast and ovarian cancer will inhibit medical research. The organization also claims that the patents are invalid and unconstitutional.; It continues: ;This is going to turn into one of the watershed events in the evolution of the bioindustry,; says John Sterling, Editor in Chief of GEN. ;The pros and cons of patenting genes have been an ongoing, and often acrimonious series of debates, since the in re Chakrabarty decision in 1980. But this particular case seems to have taken on a life of its own with over fifteen plaintiffs. For while the lawsuit specifically centers on the patentability of two cancer-related genes, the ACLU says it plans to challenge the entire concept of patenting genes. What we have here is one group, the ACLU and its allies, contending that gene patents stifle life science research and potentially harm the health of thousands of patients. On the other side are biotech companies who maintain that without gene patents research incentives are seriously diminished and innovation is smothered.; Kenneth I. Berns, M.D., Ph.D., Editor 







Document Number: 5017
participate is get an account on Twitter, put #agchat in your 140-character posts, and follow the conversation by searching for #agchat. I haven;t participated in one of these before, although I have heard of it and seen other people participating while surveying the tweetscape. So when Agchat approached me to be a special guest to talk about Food Insecurity and Hunger I thought, sure, but this means I;ll have to sign up for twitter! For those of you who know me, I;m not tempted to use a social networking service that tells me that I cannot use grammatically correct sentences and say exactly what I mean. We do have a blog twitter feed, but Frank manages that one pretty well on his own. Well, if genetically engineered ear of corn can do it, why can;t I give it a whirl? A week before the October 12th agchat was scheduled to begin, I signed up for twitter as @kjhvm , tested out some tweets, and caught the end of the previous agchat to get a feel for it. Later, I wrote a blog post on the topic of Food Insecurity and Hunger for the Agchat site. I started by thinking how 







Document Number: 3470
The year 2008 marks the 80th anniversary of mutation induction in plants. The application of mutation techniques, i.e. Gamma-rays and other physical and chemical mutagens, has generated a vast amount of genetic variability and has played a significant role in plant breeding and genetic studies. The widespread use of induced mutants in plant breeding programmes throughout the world has led to the official release of more than 2,700 plant mutant varieties. A large number of these varieties (including cereals, pulses, oil, root and tuber crops, and ornamentals) have been released in developing countries, resulting in enormous positive economic impacts. During the last decade, with the unfolding of new biological fields such as genomics and functional genomics, bioinformatics, and the development of new technologies based on these sciences, there has been an increased interest in induced mutations within the scientific community. Induced mutations are now widely used for developing improved crop varieties and for the discovery of genes, controlling important traits and understanding the functions and mechanisms of actions of these genes. Progress is also being made in deciphering the biological nature of DNA damage, repair and mutagenesis. To this end, the International Symposium on Induced Mutations in Plants was organized 







Document Number: 3567
today announced a technology collaboration agreement expected to lead to significant new advances in wheat technology for Australian growers. In connection with the collaboration, Monsanto has acquired a 19.9 % minority interest in InterGrain, a leading cereal breeder in Australia. The WA State Government remains the majority shareholder, with the Grains Research and Development Corporation (GRDC) remaining a shareholder as well. Monsanto and InterGrain will exchange certain wheat germplasm for breeding, with InterGrain gaining access to breeding technology tools and services for genotyping and marker development. This is expected to deliver increased genetic gain which will ultimately provide Australian wheat farmers with the ability to achieve higher yields. This is a very exciting development for Australian wheat farmers, with the partnering of Australias leading wheat breeder and germplasm developer and the worlds no. 1 technology provider, InterGrain Chairman Dale Baker said. InterGrain has been actively seeking a partner to grow our wheat breeding program for some time, and is very pleased to reach this agreement with Monsanto, the worlds leader in this regard. It will open the doors to a vast new library of germplasm and powerful technology capacity which Australian wheat growers have not previously had access to, which 







Document Number: 7741
now retired, got me to think about plant biology like no other subject before. Although my first lab experience was as an intern in a mouse genetics lab studying endocrine disruptors, I was hooked on plants. Within a couple short years, I was adding whatever plant biology courses I could to my schedule, and took a paying job in a plant lab studying legumes and symbiosis. Meanwhile, I got into food. Well, I;ve known how to bake and cook a few things since I was very young, but on my own living in an apartment I was figuring out how to make different kinds of food, across different cultures. I also had a gardening itch, and started supplementing my diet with vegetables that I tended at an organic community garden on campus. Before long, I was thinking about the biological basis for the wonderful flavors I was tasting, and the nutritional value of produce. I thought, could I make any of these plants better? On the other side of campus, I dug into a different kind of soil. The muck of a political columnist that made outrageously false claims about climate science galvanized my desire to try to write a 







Document Number: 4196
week for all of us, our supporters, and also our competitors. During the last few days of the final voting week, we gathered an enormous number of votes, and I want to thank all the bloggers out there who supported us by linking to our entry and asking their readers to vote for us. Last week, James and the Giant Corn gave us a plug with Putting Prejudice over Science . The Council for Biotechnology Information gave us a plug on Twitter, as well as Mica from Monsanto on her twitter account. Thanks for helping! We enjoyed an early lead of a dozen votes at the beginning, but when Monday morning rolled around, we were behind the Non-GMO Project by about 100 votes. They gathered an impressive number of votes from Friday through the weekend, networking through facebook and other places. But then at a little after 8 in the morning PZ Myers of the popular blog, Pharyngula, boomed Yum, Genetically Engineered Plants! An hour later, we overtook the competition and took the lead! PZ is an immensely popular blogger, and the pulse of his endorsement was felt across the world, from California to the UK! It was almost inexplicable! 







Document Number: 463
heard that Monsanto already has a blog, it wouldn;t quite be as funny. So a little creative photoshopping later and a couple post ideas in my brain I set the stage for a little April Fools prank on our readers, and my fellow bloggers, too. Biofortified By Greenpeace! Greenpeace ;Takeover; header I looked for famous dead people with common enough sounding names, and decided on William Harvey , born on April 1st, 1578. This physician also died in 1657, and left a few quotes lying around the literature, one of which I used in a post. Then, after coming up with a believable sounding title, Director of Global GMO policy, it was time to write a little something to get people riled up. ;William Harvey;s; first post, Are GMOs a plot to rule the World? It is a common refrain from the anti-GE crowd. Because genetically engineered crops can be patented, the argument is that biotech companies will control the world;s food, when in reality they want to make money selling improved seeds. Will started out with an argument that all GE crops will necessarily involve patents and contracts and control of food. This is not true ; publicly funded 







Document Number: 1992
blog mascot, Frank N. Foode, and pull a little prank on everyone . I conceived of the idea months ago, and this week I had to get it all together in time. I announced on the blog that not only was there a Frank N. Foode doll for sale in stores, but that each box came with genetically engineered seeds for kids to grow. This took a little bit of planning, and had some interesting results. I had two main goals, and the first was to have some fun. Sunday evening, I sat down and combed the internet for images to use to make a box. I envisioned a 5;4 box a foot tall, with a flap on the back. Bit by bit it came together, and looked something like this: (Click to zoom in on the picture) Grad student life is busy, and I didn;t get to printing this out until Thursday afternoon. I actually printed it on poster material, which I thought might be too thin to work, but it worked out nicely. Getting it home unwrinkled was a challenge given my two-wheeled mode of transportation, and a little razor-blade work and careful creasing later, I had a 







Document Number: 1484
non-transgenic farmed salmon. The Center for Food Safety has a ;new; document to bring to the discussion: an opinion (pdf) written by the National Marine Fisheries Service regarding a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers proposal about ocean net pens to raise finfish off the coast of Maine that was written in 2003. CFS talks about this letter in a blog post titled Newly Disclosed Government Documents Conclude GE Salmon Pose A Critical Threat To Marine Environments . Let;s just say there;s a few errors in the reasoning found in the blog post and indeed all over the GFS site about genetically engineered fish . Here, I;ll go over the blog post (I;ll let our excellent commenters take a look at the rest of the site) and discuss some of the errors. The post opens with: Adding a new twist to the controversy over genetically engineered (GE) salmon, the Center for Food Safety (CFS) revealed today that, in recent hearings on transgenic fish, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) knowingly withheld a Federal Biological Opinion by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) prohibiting the use of transgenic salmon in open-water net pens 







Document Number: 5214
Greenpeace International. In exchange for support of this blog;s continued operations, I will be posting regularly at Biofortified, and my office staff will monitor and moderate the continued discussion. We have made a few minor changes to the look of the blog. Now for my first blog post. Everyone knows that every Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are patented by corporations. There is not a single GMO that can be grown without the explicit permission through a signed contract. This puts the power in the hands of multinationals, taking it away from the indigenous people of Hawaii, Southeast Asia, Africa, and even farmers in the U.S. are having their right stripped away. The right to save seed is fundamental to growing food, and anything that removes this right is morally wrong. This is why Greenpeace has a strong stance against genetic modification, because as a corporate technology it inherently requires that farmers be unable to save seed. We also seek to eliminate hybrid crops, because these are another method for maintaining the dominance of seed companies over farmers. Hybrids do not breed true ; and so farmers have to keep re-buying seed. Recently, we have added seedless watermelons to our growing 







Document Number: 8911
as soon as Karl joins me at McCormick Place tomorrow, I can get some more good pictures. I will be going to a lot of panel discussions, and Biofortified;s own Dr. Pam Ronald and Karl Haro von Mogel will each be participating in one of them. Cool! I will also be available for photo ops, too, so to make it easy for you to find me, here;s where I will be on Wednesday the 5th: The Global Experience with the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety Session Track: Food and Agriculture, Breakout Sessions Session Location: Room N426C Session Date: Wednesday May 5, 2010 Session Time: 10:00 AM ; 11:30 AM Session Speaker: Alexander Grobman, PhD ; Chair | Company:Peru Biotec [and other speakers] Summary: The Cartagena Protocol of Biosafety, approved in February 2000, was implemented in September 2003. The Protocol applies to the transboundary movement, transit, handling and use of all living modified; Then it will be time for lunch, and I;ve got a date with Pam! Well ok, I;m in the audience . BIO will host a special media luncheon on Wednesday, May 5, 2010 featuring Dr. Channapatna S. Prakash , professor of plant molecular genetics at Tuskegee University, who will 







Document Number: 3138
question- why are there few horticultural (basically non-agronomic fruits and vegetables) transgenic crops available, at least relative to corn, soy and other huge agronomic crops? These are the capsules of flavor and nutrition truly necessary in a diverse diet, yet they suffer tremendous challenges to production and distribution. Transgenic technologies could deliver great benefits. The issue was approached by Dr. Ralph Scorza from the USDA Appalachian Fruit Research Station. Ive known of Dr. Scorzas outstanding work for almost two decades. Years ago he sought a solution to the plum pox virus (PPV), the causative agent of a devastating disease called Sharka . The disease affects stone fruits (peaches, apricots, others) and can destroy whole orchards and decimate natural populations. While breeding solutions are being pursued with timelines measured in decades, PPV can now be mitigated with Scorzas solution by grafting a stonefruit scion to the transgenic rootstock. Works like a charm, and the fruit are not transgenic. The solution was introduction of a gene encoding the coat protein of PPV. When overexpressed in plums (because they are routinely transformed in the Scorza Lab), the plant became immune to the disease, almost like a vaccination. While this was interesting science it 







Document Number: 6186
the world needs a better way to meet the demand for increased food production. To meet the growing need to feed the worlds population in an environmentally friendly way will require combining the technologies of genetic engineering and organic farming. To successfully marry these two technologies we will need to overcome long held animosity between scientists, supporters of organic farming and conventional farmers. We will also need to address the antagonism some feel toward the idea of genetic engineering. The recent debate on the Big Island over genetically engineered crops pitted organic coffee farmers against researchers and the biotech industry, with some organic farmers voicing concern that genetically engineered crops threaten their livelihood and agricultural philosophy. However, it appears their concerns about food safety are driven more by technological anxiety than by science. Today, the majority of all processed foods in the United States have at least one ingredient from genetically engineered crops and all scientific panels that have studied this matter have concluded that the GE crops currently grown in the United States are safe to eat. The National Academy of Sciences and the United Kingdom Genetically Modified Science Review Panel have both concluded that the process of adding 







Document Number: 4422
He had an opportunity to frame some points to make to the delegates who are interested in conserving biodiversity, an issue the Pundit is passionate about too. He does worry that global approaches to conserving natural biodiversity may miss out on encouraging some of the most effective but not necessarily obvious pathways to long-term preservation of nature. In his opinion we should focus on ensuring farming operations preserve nature by working from the ground up, rather than working top down by making global rules about biodiversity. At the Nagoya session he had the opportunity to express some of these views, (see video of session here http://www.biodiversityworldtour.com/category/events/ ) but now he is home from the conference that he is taking the opportunity to amplify them here at GMO Pundit. GMO Pundit thinks we could gain from the old and well-known aphorism of Rene Dubos ; think globally but act locally. This catch-phrase is really relevant to how we can think about the global biodiversity issue in a more effective way. The big global issues of biodiversity are extremely important but we need to act locally at the farm level to devise policies can be successful in practice and also benefit local 







Document Number: 3753
poor people rely on staples to meet their daily calorie requirements. The existence of such energydense food is the result of genetic selection by humans since the beginning of agriculture, which was dominated by selection criteria related to yield increase. Biochemical diversity as an important food requirement, such as the need for micronutrientsi.e., vitamins and microelementscould not be considered. The resulting &nbsp;biochemical monotony in staples can be counterbalanced by food diversification, where possible. However, poverty reasons have led to predominant consumption of staples in large parts of the world60% of calories consumed are from three crops: rice, corn and wheat. Consequently, a variety of micronutrient malnutrition diseases affecting large parts of the worlds population have emerged. Biofortification of crop plants describes the idea of providing the micronutrients through the staple crop plants own biosynthetic (vitamins) or physiological (minerals) capacity. This can be accomplished by conventional classical breeding, when the desired micronutrient-rich germplasm is available, allowing the transfer of such nutritional traits into agriculturally relevant cultivars. In the absence of sufficient genetic variability or when plant breeding is ineffective, the introduction of the desired trait by genetic engineering is required. An important scientific prerequisite for the application of genetic engineering is 







Document Number: 9822
know it as mammals would be in peril. We need it for our nerves and muscles to function properly, too. Many people in the United States are deficient in calcium, upwards of 44%, and in the developing world, these numbers are sadly much, much higher. And as we age, we lose more and more calcium from our bones, leading to osteoporosis. Women are particularly at risk for this disease once they go through menopause. What can we do? Taking calcium in supplement form can be one way to absorb it, but according to the results of a huge multi-year trial of calcium supplements conducted by the Women;s Health Initiative, these provided only modest benefits . Only women over 60 who took the full regimen of calcium supplements (with Vitamin D) had a statistically significant difference from the control group. And this benefit came with a cost ; of more kidney stones. Nutrition research continues to find wrinkles in the vitamin and mineral pill-popping philosophy, often due to the fact that there are many factors that influence the absorption of needed nutrients. In the case of calcium, vitamin D is important to help its absorption, while antinutrients such as phytic acid 







Document Number: 7046
on the site;s system disappeared when I tried to publish it. So I had to start all over, this time writing it out in Word first . It would have been nice to know the character limit of the ;describe your idea; section beforehand, which led to the catastrophic disappearance. Anyhow, please consider registering at the changemakers site and voting for my entry. The number of votes to beat is 33 votes, I know way more people read this site than that! As opposed to the hiccups that the publishing process experiences on changemakers, registration takes less than a minute and is pain-free. So get to it! My entry is below the fold. The text-only entry boxes eliminated my formatting, so here it is as I would like to have shown it: Biofortified is an independent group blog for plant genetics and genetic engineering (GE). By posting news, discussing research, debunking myths, and inviting the input of guest experts and especially readers, our knowledgeable writers are helping to bring a new standard of communication to agricultural biotechnology. Check us out! What makes your approach innovative? Group science blogs have been tried and tested, but this is the first one for 







Document Number: 5818
Anastasia and I decided to submit a joint comment to the USDA with Biofortified.org;s name attached to it. There has been much discussion as of late on this blog, spearheaded by Anastasia , about the issue of coexistence . While hyperbole about ;kissing your organics goodbye; and meaningless distinctions such as ;the first GE perennial field crop; (first perennial is papaya) are abound, some interesting things are actually going on. In December, the USDA held a meeting with several stakeholders, and the transcript of this meeting can be found here . There are several ideas being floated around, and some familiar names. I;ll have more to say on this meeting later. But one statement struck a chord, and that was that there wasn;t enough time for discussion between the meeting and the end of the Alfalfa comment period. Of course, let;s ignore the fact that GE crops have been grown for 14 years, and that Alfalfa was first deregulated years ago. There has been plenty of time for discussion, but I guess no one has been trying to make this discussion happen in a productive manner until now. Kudos to the USDA for getting things going, though it be in 







Document Number: 3928
about this potentially dangerous yet potentially lifesaving application of technology. ; Scientists Worry Over GM Drug Crops ;, posted on Environmental Graffiti, briefly covers the news that crops engineered to express pharmaceutical proteins will be field tested this growing season, concentrating on the Union of Concerned Scientists; reaction. Apparently UCS is taking their typical anti-tech stance, asking the USDA to require all such crops to be grown in greenhouses or underground. I was not able to find any record of UCS;s recent comments. I;d like to defend myself, as a scientist. I refuse to believe that any scientist or biotech company would purposefully release a dangerous plant into the food supply. Even if you think scientists and biotech companies are unethical, they certainly aren;t stupid. The first company to sell a biotech plant that;s actually dangerous would likely be burnt to the ground by activists before they had time to go bankrupt. While debates over biotech crops continue, no one has ever gotten sick from a GM plant, or any GMO. What I;ve read about proposed biopharma and industrial crops haven;t indicated that this will change. For example, consider the Amflora potato, developed by BASF. This humble potato will be 







Document Number: 7105
to get biotech to the people who need it most. All farmers, especially the poor, can use biotech crops to decrease inputs and increase yields. According to the ISAAA executive summary , ;for the twelfth consecutive year, the global area of biotech crops continued to soar.; There was an increase of 12% from 2006 to 2007, resulting in a total of 282.4 million acres of biotech crops. Most interestingly, the increase in biotech hasn;t been solely in developed countries by big agribusiness. Biotech crops achieved a very important milestone in 2007 with humanitarian implications the number of small and resource-poor farmers benefiting from biotech crops in developing countries exceeded 10 million for the first time. Of the global total of 12 million beneficiary biotech farmers in 2007;, over 90% or 11 million were small and resource-poor farmers from developing countries; the balance of 1 million were large farmers from both industrial countries such as Canada and developing countries such as Argentina. ISAAA goes on to explain the benefits individual countries have received from biotech crops, eliminating many misconceptions (below the cut, all monetary values reported in US dollars). The report also discusses the future of biotech crops, which I will 







Document Number: 2037
of Concerned Farmers , Julie Newman, says that conventional wheat farmers need to be protected ; from being outperformed by genetically engineered wheat. I have to post the whole thing because I can;t figure out what to leave out: THE introduction of a Genetically Modified (GM) wheat variety with frost tolerance could potentially flood the world wheat market and drastically lower its price and profitability, according to Network of Concerned Farmers WA spokesperson Julie Newman. Our competitors will actually fare much better if we bring in GM wheat, because we can grow frost-tolerant crops now but they cant because of the cold snaps, she said. If you invent a GM wheat variety that has frost tolerance, it will open up all of the rich farming area in Russia and the Ukraine, and there will be a major glut of wheat on the world market. It would almost double global production and that means our wheat would be worth a fraction of the price. She said a clear set of rules needed to be established to ensure non-GM farmers were protected and retained their right of choice to not grow it. The reason you grow a crop is because you want 







Document Number: 7291
to give everyone the heads-up with a blog post. (Busy making time in my research, that is. Packing took one evening.) Today through Friday, I will be at the Biotechnology Industry Organization;s 2009 International Convention, representing Biofortified and blogging about it. Let me give you a few more details. A few months ago, the Council for Biotechnology Information contacted me and invited me to be their guest blogger for the convention. They created a news blog to report on the agriculture-related talks and panels, and offered to cover my expenses to help them report on the conference. I;ve never been to the BIO conventions, which host presentations on more than just ag biotech issues. It would also give me the chance to promote the blog, get exposed to the biotech zeitgeist, and meet some interesting people. It will also allow people who might not otherwise know much about what goes on at these conventions to learn all about it. That means you! The CBI, however is an industry-funded nonprofit, and although they do not engage in any political lobbying, accepting their offer does present a potential conflict of interest. Would people still see me as an independent academic? Would I 







Document Number: 2741
had well over 40 million hectares in cultivation by the year 2005. The phenomenal achievement of transforming the infertile Cerrado region into highly productive land over a span of fifty years, the worlds single largest increase in farmland since the settlement of the U.S. Midwest, has been hailed as a far-reaching milestone in agricultural science. The Cerrado is an arid brush savanna stretching over 120 million hectares across central Brazil from the western plains to the northeastern coast. With soils characterized by high acidity and aluminum levels that are toxic to most crops, Brazilian farmers had long referred to the area as campos cerrados closed land, with little promise for sustaining production. . . The Cerrado region now provides 54 percent of all soybeans harvested in Brazil, 28 percent of the countrys corn, and 59 percent of its coffee. Cerrado agriculture has also diversified to include rice, cotton, cassava, and sugar. For all crops, average yields in the Cerrado are higher than in other areas, with harvests reaching 4.8 tons per hectare of soybeans and 11 tons per hectare of corn. In addition, the Cerrado supports 55 percent of Brazils beef industry. And that;s on 1/3 of the land available. 







Document Number: 551
grows up the offspring, selects the best and repeats. It;s effective, slow, labor intensive and limited by the perception of the breeder. Most traits are also very heavily impacted by the environment, so each new genotype must be grown in multiple locations +/or multiple years to make sure the recorded phenotype is due to the genetics (not the environment) of the individual. Most of our crops were domesticated and refined this way (quite a success!). Modern breeding has additionally been refined by the development of various statistical techniques and crossing schemes that make the whole process more efficient. Marker-Assisted Selection MAS relies on the development of ;markers; that co-segregate with traits of interest. Picture a chromosome: an incredibly long stretch of DNA with genes located occasionally along its length. You can develop molecular markers (e.g. SNPs or microsatellites ) that act as signposts along the whole length of the chromosome (where each of the signposts look different in each parent). Since sexual recombination moves DNA in big chunks, lots of the nearby markers will be moved with each gene. Statistical techniques can then be used to see which markers are associated with each trait. Since markers that are physically close 







Document Number: 798
enter deep puncture wounds, such as the proverbial rusty nail, or in this soldier;s case, a dirty sword in battle. Once inside the wound, C. tetani bacteria produce the tetanus toxin, which then migrates to the body;s central nervous system where it causes tetanus disease, characterized by intense muscle spasms. 70% to 80% of the people who contract tetanus die. Unfortunately, many of these people today are newborn infants and their mothers. Infection by C. tetani bacteria occurs in these cases when unclean instruments are used to cut umbilical cords or remove a fetus from the mother;s womb during live birth or abortion. If the mother had been immunized against tetanus toxin, she and the infant (who would be born with some of its mother;s immunities) would have survived. You may wonder why the mother was not immunized when vaccines against tetanus have been readily available for more than a generation. In fact, it is because vaccinations are far less prevalent in poor countries than in wealthier nations such as the United States and much of Europe. Furthermore, despite growing humanitarian interest in providing vaccines, the infrastructure of many developing nations is not sufficient to safely synthesize, transport, or store 







Document Number: 962
sponsored by the National Geographic and the Aspen Institute. I am experimenting with liveblogging from the meeting. Lets see how it goes. The first panel I attended featured Andrew Revkin , Peter Huybers , Mohan Munasinghe , moderated by David Brancaccio . ;The pace of sea level rise is uncertain; says Revkin. It is a distraction to argue about the pace when we know that it is a real problem. It is like arguing about a bus rolling backwards down a hill in SF as to whether it is going 3 or 4 miles per hour. ;Ultimately it is human beings and their fate that concerns us;, says Munasinghe. ;The planet will persist, but will we? Already we see billions of people affected, with 300,00 deaths a year. The poor have least to do with the problem yet they will suffer the most.; He argues that we need to look at ways to reduce emissions. There is not enough carbon space left to let the poor to grow out of poverty. Poverty will kill people long before climate change. Those of us who have enjoyed the benefits of carbon emissions must decide what we can give up to give those 







Document Number: 2581
and farmer suicides in India. IFPRI ;seeks sustainable solutions for ending hunger and poverty;, so it makes sense for them to investigate any possible links between Bt and farmer suicides. Bt Cotton and Farmer Suicides in India: Reviewing the Evidence examines every aspect of the problem, concluding that farmers in India do have very real issues pressing upon them, but Bt is not to blame for their choice to commit suicide. The report is through, but written in language that lay people can easily follow. I encourage you to read it for yourself. To me, the most interesting part was titled ;The Bt Cotton Controversy: The Institutional Context;. This section listed the actual causes of farmer distress, and once we identify the real problems, we can start talking about real solutions. The biggest problem seems to be education. Farmers have access to new technology but little if any information on how to use it to maximize benefit. Even with the yearly increases in adoption, production, and yields, Bt cotton has had its share of controversy. Farmers lack of information on growing conditions, pesticide use, the importance of planting proper seeds, and the earnings to be expected from using this technology 







Document Number: 4018
radiation-based techniques to modify crop characteristics and traits. In 2001, KARI plant breeders released Njoro-BW1 , their first mutant wheat variety. It is drought tolerant, moderately resistant to rust (a fungus), has good yield, and good flour quality. Kenyas plant breeders soon will release a second mutant wheat variety, code-named DH4 , which shares most of the same good qualities of Njoro-BW1 . [ Golden Wheat Greens Kenyas Drylands ] Traditional breeding encompasses all plant breeding methods that do not fall under current GMO regulations.As the European legal framework defines GMOs and specifies various breeding techniques that are excluded from the GMO regulations,we use this framework as a starting point, particularly the European Directive 2001/18/EC on the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment (European Parliament, 2001). Excluded from this GMO Directive are longstanding cross breeding, in vitro fertilization, polyploidy induction, mutagenesis and fusion of protoplasts from sexually compatible plants (European Parliament, 2001). It is indeed good news that Kenyan farmers have these lines of wheat with such improvements over unimproved varieties. However, radiation based so-called mutation plant breeding could have unintended changes in the genome. This technique, widely used in both organic and conventional crops, literally bombards the seeds 







Document Number: 5901
agriculture. Twenty years ago organic farmers in our area began growing specialty sunflowers to sell for cut flowers. Although most of the pollen from organic sunflowers does not travel further than 3 meters, some of it can travel up to distances of 1000 meters, which can cause problems for growers of certified sunflower seed. If stray organic pollen should land on a sunflower grown for seed and hybridize with it, the resulting seed will no longer be purebred, reducing the value of the crop. This is the reason that sunflower seed growers in the valley were concerned about gene flow from organic sunflowers. The certified seed growers and organic flower growers came to an agreement. The seed growers gave the organic growers sterile seed that gave rise to flowers with no pollen- thus eliminating the risk of gene flow. This compromise offers a good example of how discussions among neighbors can lead to mutual benefits. California farmers grow 350 recognized crop and livestock commodities under a variety of farming conditions, often on adjoining fields. Good communication and common sense is key to peaceful coexistence. Can we apply these principles to all crop production methods;GE, organic, and conventional? According to some 







Document Number: 1684
partial deregulation, there are better ways to ensure that all farmers get to grow what they want. First, there already exists case law to solve problems between individual farmers. The two current big lawsuits ( sugar beets , alfalfa ) aren;t about individual farmers, though, they are carefully orchestrated efforts by special interest groups. Anyway, as I understand it, if two neighboring farmers can;t work out things on their own, the case law is clear. Hopefully if I have it wrong someone with relevant expertise will stop by and comment. When things move from one person;s land to another person;s land, that is trespassing. Every person has a responsibility to keep their things to themselves, using reasonable methods to control their things. Every person also has a responsibility to protect their things from harm, using reasonable methods to protect anything that might be harmed by outside forces (like things from your neighbor moving into the area). You thought your neighbor was difficult! &quot;Hero car&quot; by Rasmin via Flickr. Let;s consider an example far, far from agriculture. Let;s say that John is a stunt man that specializes in intense fiery scenes. He has developed a company that does all kinds of 







Document Number: 7659
thinking to help see our society out of the debate over genetically engineered crops. It is called GMO Risk or Rescue? Helping Consumers Decide . Here;s what their contest is about: The debate over the future of our food supply is heating up. Everyone is weighing in on the moral, environmental, and nutritional effects that Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) will have on our society, but how do we really know what;s on our plate? This summary is well-written and gets everyone in the right mindset to offer up an idea no matter their point of view. The Welcome Letter goes into more detail: WHAT;S ON YOUR PLATE? Advances in food science and technology have changed dramatically in the last decades. Often food consumers voices are not heard in the debate. Yet, no one is more important in the business of food than consumers. How do we know what;s really on our plate? And how do we demonstrate that we have the power to make and demand better choices? We invite our Changemakers community to speak up, challenge each other, and develop ideas and solutions that will have an impact on the world. This competition is about finding the best solutions 







Document Number: 970
and misguided. &nbsp;The minimal successes at improving the health and wealth of the poor he cited have been vastly overshadowed by negative policies and actions by UN agencies. Underlying the U.N.s deficiencies is the inability of its leaders to apprehend how their own flawed policies prevent the achievement of their ambitious Millennium Development Goals for 2015, which include cutting hunger and poverty in half, giving all children a basic education, reducing infant and maternal mortality by two-thirds and three-quarters respectively, and reversing the spread of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. &nbsp;Chemicals regulation and water policy offer just two examples, among many. Since the cheap and effective insecticide DDT was effectively banned worldwide at the UN-sponsored 2001 Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, insect-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue have been on the rise. &nbsp;In fact, the huge toll of diseases spread by mosquitoes caused some public health officials to rethink DDTs use. &nbsp;In 2006, after some 50 million preventable deaths, the U.N.s World Health Organization reversed course and endorsed the use of DDT to kill and repel malaria-causing mosquitoes. &nbsp;At the time, Arata Kochi, the World Health Organization official in charge of malaria said, We must take a position based 







Document Number: 557
found in grapes (see A GM wheat that prevents Alzheimer;s disease , extract below) or with polyphenols that are found in berries, it behooves us to understand what they do to us. Over at The Whole Health Source there is a well researched story that spells out the latest developments on why many berries, grapes, wines and juices containing polyphenols are good for you. In a word: it;s hormesis . Find an excerpt below: Polyphenols, Hormesis and Disease: Part II In the last post, I explained that the body treats polyphenols as potentially harmful foreign chemicals, or ;xenobiotics;. How can we reconcile this with the growing evidence that at least a subset of polyphenols have health benefits? Clues from Ionizing Radiation One of the more curious things that has been reported in the scientific literature is that although high-dose ionizing radiation (such as X-rays) is clearly harmful, leading to cancer, premature aging and other problems, under some conditions low-dose ionizing radiation can actually decrease cancer risk and increase resistance to other stressors ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ). It does so by triggering a protective cellular response, increasing cellular defenses out of proportion to the 







Document Number: 499
course) was a really wonderful experience. The conversation was fast paced and fabulous, covering the map from science journalism to specific details on certain genetically engineered traits to the deliciousness of local produce. All my nervousness was for naught, as Michael is extremely nice. He listened to Karl and I blab about science very politely, even with interest. Hopefully we weren;t too enthusiastic. I really hope that we opened long lasting lines of communication. Time will tell. It is obvious that there are a lot of people hoping for Micheal;s attention, including the fan boy that came up to him as we were leaving, so I can only hope that we left at least a small positive impression. Ok, now for the important part; the food! I wasn;t sure what to expect from Chez Panisse because I found reviews that went to both extremes. I was trying to not have expectations that wouldn;t be met ; but it was fabulous. I know, it seems weird that a genetic engineer would be a pro-local foodie, but there it is. I;d of course heard of Alice Waters before and all the hype around her restaurant, and I was very excited to experience 







Document Number: 6984
organize the best of them on one website. Their deadline was in early March, and I was busy getting some of my videos ready to be entered when they extended the deadline to April 15th. This was good, because up until they announced the extension, there were very few videos entered in the contest. As a result, over 60 videos were entered for their first contest! This morning, I received a press release from Chlorofilms ; They have chosen their winners and I;m counted among them! Here is the press release: ChloroFilms announces video contest winners 15 May 2009 Chlorofilms announced today the winners of its competition for new plant biology videos on YouTube. Over $8,000 in cash prizes were awarded in this first competition, which promotes the creation of fresh, attention-getting and informative videos about plant life. Grand prize winner (with $1,000 cash prize) is Ela Lamblin of Vashon, WA, for her entry entitled ;Fertile Eyes;. The video, a collaboration with Anna Edlund, combines music, dance, sensual imagery and puns to tell the story of pollination and fertilization in plants in an unforgetable way. First prizes ($500 cash awards) go to Daniel von Wangenheim of Cologne, Germany for his 







Document Number: 4126
at Dillions supermarket in Manhattan (Kansas). We usually dont go anywhere because the town is more serene with the students gone, and we host a dinner for various international stragglers with nowhere else to go. At least I didnt have to go to Whole Foods. Terrible food safety and so insufferable. For the past couple of weeks, Whole Foods has been pushing their turkeys like some form of food porn crack, and repeating the following statements as mantra: No antibiotics ever No supplemental growth hormones* No animal byproducts in feed *Federal regulations prohibit the use of hormones when raising poultry Whole Foods lets birds suffer if they are sick, and follows the law by not using hormones. Should sick animals be deprived antibiotics? Wouldnt that go against animal welfare standards? I dont see how this is the basis for an advertizing campaign. Federal regulators may want to have a look, seeing as they cracked down on Tysons BS claims that they didnt use antibiotics in poultry production that no one else used. Whole Foods does have a bunch of homespun tales about turkeys raised by farmers the way our grandparents did it. Apparently society has learned nothing about food production 







Document Number: 9176
by using clever technologies to circumvent traditional unfounded criticisms of biotechnology. Dr. Franz Krenz was the first speaker of the session. His focus was in describing what have been known as cisgenic technologies, or the moniker sometimes applied to allele-specific marker assisted selection, precision breeding .* Dr. Krenz and colleagues have adopted a very strict interpretation of what cisgenic means. By his definition, a cisgenic plant contains regulatory regions and protein-coding regions from the same species, shuttled by biotechnological means. There are no bacterial genes for resistance, no viral promoters, no other genic sequences. Corn to corn, rice to rice, quince to quince. It would be like moving a gene that controls eye color from one person to another to another to make their blue eyes brown. Homo sapiens to Homo sapiens . Nothing fancy. In plants naturally-occurring beneficial gene variants are quite common, yet oftentimes occur in unimproved species with limited commercial potential. Specific gene variants confer resistance to disease, variation in flowering time and production traits like fruit size and yield. These have been described in many horticultural and agronomic crops. To breed these traits into existing lines using traditional crossing methods might take decades, depending on the 







Document Number: 1175
decade by hand crossing other heirloom varieties and selecting the best of their offspring. These tomatoes are everything a tomato lover dreamed of ; the perfect red color, soft yet firm texture, sweet yet flavorful taste, and they have high yields to boot. You;ve carefully transitioned your farm to organic and received your organic certification last year, so your seeds are in even higher demand than usual. Last year, you had far more requests for these special seeds than you could meet, so this year, you planted hundreds of tomato plants, planning to harvest all the seeds to dry and sell the following year to your tomato-hungry customers. The weather is perfect, the flowers are maturing and about set pollen; and disaster strikes. What;s the disaster? It could be any number of things. Farming is risky. There could be a few cold nights that cause the pollen to die before many fruits are pollinated. There could be a sudden flood that washes away half or more of the plants and stresses the rest. There could be a plague of locusts that destroy the plants. There could be an outbreak of a rare virus that affects the young fruit; Or it 







Document Number: 51
her work with CCD. She has been studying bees for 20 years and heads a diverse team of researchers working to solve the mystery. She said that there there are quite a few ;theories; that her team disagrees with. In particular, she said that CCD is not caused by the rapture or the Russians. She puts cell phones and genetically engineered crops in the same category, choosing instead to focus on legitimate leads. She says that there are many reasons why their group is not looking into these as possible causes, but one reason sticks out: some Amish and organic beekeepers whose hives are isolated from genetically engineered crops, many pesticides, and cell phones in the case of the Amish have experienced CCD, while some conventional beekeepers have not. In other words, there isn;t a common thread connecting colonies that have collapsed. Despite the fact that scientists like Dr. Cox Foster have spoken on the lack of legitimacy of these theories, people continue to write about them, such as this example from the always creative Global Research. I won;t pick the article apart due to time constraints, but wanted to show the range of views. A lot of mainstream articles 







Document Number: 3171
month, making this an exciting month for talking about plant genetics. Plus we;ll have more to say about our own Rally to Restore Sanity in the debate over genetic engineering, and if that was not enough, there will be opportunities for everyone to be able to win fabulous prizes ; and I;m going to tell you about your first chance! The first Biofortified Community Contest is on, and it will be a contest for the best comment or comments. That;s right, just by writing just one awesome comment that contributes to the discussion here, you can win a prize! It could be about some of the many things we talk about on the blog such as the science, politics, social and philosophical issues, personal beliefs, or a collection of helpful links that you have scoured the internet for. Here are the rules: Anyone can nominate someone for this contest, but must link to at least one comment (can be several) by that author. You may nominate yourself! Editors (and me) are ineligible for the contest ; but contributing authors can get in on the action. Comments can be from any date in the past, present, or future . They can 







Document Number: 6060
and I have a bit of a confession to make: I forgot to announce the winner! While several fantastic pumpkins were carved, one entrant thought outside the jack-0-lantern varietal box and went with a Spaghetti Squash. Still Cucurbita pepo , but hilariously carved and lit up! I think this is what I looked like when I read what Andy Kimbrell said way back when. Check out the head splitting, string-vomiting action! So our third community contest, the carving contest goes to GregH , who is also an undergrad horticulture and finance major with quote a collection of plants listed on his profile page. Is that popping sorghum as well? Coolness. Greg wins an embroidered cotton canvas shopping bag (complete with custom pocket with a pen-holder), along with a Norman Borlaug commemorative coin! Maybe belated but just in time for farmer;s markets in the spring, no? Back in October, I really jumped on this community contest concept, probably too many at once, and the winner of our second contest also got lost in the shuffle. They found out that they won by email, mind you, but all of you need to know as well. The theme for this contest, if you 







Document Number: 2253
and Agroecology at Washington State University, recently presented a lecture at Iowa State. I have to admit, a professor of agroecology automatically raises my skeptical eyebrows, but I;d previously read Dr. Reganold;s 2001 letter in Nature: Sustainability of three apple production systems , which was about some pretty solid research, so I was really looking forward to his talk. In this letter, Dr. Reganold and his colleagues showed that organic, conventional, and integrated (aka a mixture of organic and conventional techniques) were each viable methods of farming, each with their own benefits. During this visit to Sustainable Agriculture Colloquium at Iowa State, Dr. Reganold talked about comparing organic and conventional methods, of course! According to Dr. Reganold, indicators of sustainability include: adequate yields of high quality, economics, environmental impact, and social justice, among others. He said that we need to judge all farming systems, including organic and conventional, on the same indicators. One indicator of successful farming practices that Dr. Reganold said needed to change is our fixation on yields. Using yield as a measure of agriculture leaves out many factors, including soil, water, and other environmental effects. It also leaves out the human effect. Conventional agriculture, and much of 







Document Number: 3704
, but we all know that 100% exclusion of unwanted pollen is impossible (at least for now). So, what happens when a farmers field or wild plant population is contaminated with a transgene? Can they be decontaminated? What about gene flow from non-transgenic crops? Strangely, none of the people concerned with transgenic gene flow seem to be concerned about non-transgenic pollen from modern cultivars, which is a much bigger problem. I use contaminated in quotes because nature doesnt see the distinctions we see. Transgene or not, wild or cultivated, all go into a big mixing pot to be stirred by random mating and natural selection. If we are to be concerned about transgenes, we must consider the actual effects that those genes might have, and how those genes might act within a population. There are three types of effects an escaped transgene could have on wild populations: 1) Some transgenes are expected to have a negative effect on the fitness of wild plants. For example, a gene that dramatically increases the size and number of fruits produced by a plant is desirable from an agricultural perspective, but will likely have detrimental effects on a wild plant, because the plant would 







Document Number: 457
have been providing superb input and support in comments and in the forum. So who won? The winner of Community Contest #1 goes to a person who has been helping out for a long time (in corn years) with providing links, digging up sources, and helping to populate our list of GE companies , for example. They helped dig up an obscure article that undermined a persistent myth about soy allergies and GE crops, all while being friendly and funny. And that person is none other than MaryM ! So congratulations Mary, your very own Biofortified Schwag Bag will be on its way for you to fill with groceries, carry your lunch in, or hold while snoopy dancing! Give her a round of applause! Community Contest #2 With contest #1 now over, it is time to announce the beginning of contest #2. This will be the same as contest #1, but with a twist. One of the things that we want to see here is healthy disagreement. C;mon, you don;t have to be a genetically modified organism to know that some of the things we talk about on Biofortified can lead to some heated arguments. Words flying everywhere, food rights 







Document Number: 324
about corn that you;d like to know more about? Let us know in the comments. Myth: Huge amounts of the sizable US corn crop go to HFCS production. Here;s an example that sums up this idea from Grist : ;The Big Corn People began to grow so much royally-subsidized GMO corn that they turned it into millions of gallons of high fructose corn syrup.; It;s true, a portion of the US corn crop is used for HFCS production. It;s also true that corn syrup is cheap because the corn industry receives subsidies. But there;s a lot more to this story. How is corn used? Most of the US corn crop is used for animal feed. In 2006-2007, 5.6 billion bushels of corn were used for animal feed, 2.1 billion for exports, 2.1 billion for ethanol, 753 million for corn sweeteners, 272 million for corn starch, 190 million for corn foods (tortillas, cereal, etc), and 137 for alcoholic beverages, according to Iowa State University;s High Fructose Corn Syrup ; How sweet it is (pdf). It;s more than a little dishonest to blame the monocultures on HFCS, when so much of the crop is used for feed. Again, that;s 5.6 billion bushels 







Document Number: 2189
pain, my daughter was doubled over and gasping. When we took her to the hospital, the doctor took one look at her and immediately ordered a scan. Within hours she was in the operating room to have her ruptured appendix removed. After the operation, the surgeon showed us pictures of the process, including a glossy photo of the inflamed appendix and the staple he had used to close off the end from which it had been removed. Almost immediately after surgery, my daughters fever diminished. Her post-surgical pain was minimal compared to the searing pain that brought us to the hospital in the first place. As I write this, she is still in the hospital where she will remain for a few more days. But the crisis is over and there is improvement by the hour. By the time you read this, she will probably be home again in her own bed. In the May 2009 issue of Bioethics in Brief, I discussed the fear of novelty that often leads to skepticism about new technology. I urged that moderate skepticism may be appropriate if it leads us to logically weigh the risks involved in new technologies, and that caution may 







Document Number: 3320
step closer to making a positive impact on the availability of food for people in developing countries and beyond. Time Magazine reports that Dr. Keerti Rathore and his team, who made the development years ago have now moved on to field trials, a necessary step to test the resilience and effectiveness of the trait in real-world conditions. RNA that Interferes Let me tell you how this works. They used a technique called RNA interference , or RNAi. When plants (and other organisms we are finding) are infected with a virus that uses RNA as its genetic material, they defend themselves by chopping up the offending molecule. Cells use the double-stranded DNA as genetic material, and use the very similar single-stranded RNA to carry information from the genes to the rest of the cell for making proteins. But the RNA that these viruses use is double-stranded, like DNA. Since plants don;t use RNA as a double-strand, this gives them something different to detect and destroy, and that;s what they do. An enzyme called Dicer detects double-stranded RNA and chops it up into little pieces, about 20 bases long, and a complex of enzymes called the RNA Induced Silencing Complex (RISC) uses 







Document Number: 1358
people meeting at Dicks Last Resort to watch the DC event and to encourage each other that we are not alone as people who dont like the hyper-partisan trend in politics. I actually haven;t seen any reporting on the main or local versions of this event that captured it;s spirit or age-diversity. I think maybe this sort of satire is a little too subtle for many people to understand. Even so, I wish there was a rally or some other mechanism to ;restore sanity; in the discussion of food politics . Food Politics Are Not That Different The Comedy Central team does a great job of pointing out the absurdity and imbalance in the world of cable news. They call them out for promoting irrational fear (both from the right and from the left). From my perspective as an agricultural scientist, there is a similar set of voices out there promoting fear about agriculture. These sources present the same sort of circus mirror view of modern agriculture that John Stewart described for other politics at the DC rally. In general politics, people carelessly throw around accusations of racism, or socialism, and compare people to Hitler. In food politics the equivalent 







Document Number: 1132
to come out publicly with a critique of Patricks new book, Confessions of a Greenpeace Dropout: The Making of a Sensible Environmentalist . Here is Patricks response: RW: You make claims that have been refuted by the people you reference. This may be okay over a beer, but seems reckless in print. You say DDT was discontinued for use in malaria control by the World Health Organization and USAID. But surely you know that WHO and USAID representatives have already told George Monbiot that they never stopped using DDT for malaria control. ( A Charming Falsehood , The Guardian). Why would you restate this, knowing that WHO and USAID have refuted it? PM: I have provided you with a link to the UN media release titled, Reversing Its Policy, UN Agency Promotes DDT to Combat the Scourge of Malaria , UN News Center, September 15, 2006. Here is the link again where the WHO announces that it is reversing its policy to discontinue the use of DDT after nearly 30 years. USAID made the same decision in 2006. This reversal stemmed from the negotiations towards the Stockholm Convention on toxic, persistent, bioaccumulative chemicals which, in the end, despite strong opposition 







Document Number: 9287
efforts is the yearly Shopper;s Guide to Pesticides . EWG gives many many reasons why they think you should use the guide, specifying that you (the consumer) should eat organic or at least choose the Clean 15 over the Dirty Dozen: The 12 most contaminated fruits and vegetables (the Dirty Dozen) are contaminated with an average of 10 different pesticides, with many tainting more than one type of produce. In contrast, the Clean 15, the 15 least contaminated fruits and vegetables, contain an average of less than 2. Eating organic food lowers pesticide body burdens as well. Research shows that concentrations of pesticides in childrens bodies peak during seasons that they eat the most produce, but fall to below detectable levels in just 5 days when they eat organic food. The list of reasons has a lot of scary facts about how many pesticides detected on food, just how ;polluted; our bodies are from the things we eat, and explains how our government barely regulates pesticides. Near the bottom, EWG lets us know that despite the scary facts that the need to eat fresh produce outweighs any risk from pesticide residues. They also remind consumers of the importance of eating 







Document Number: 5545
Crop Biotechnology and Trade - Kym Anderson, New Biotechnology (in Press), full paper at http://web.services.adelaide.edu.au/cies/publications/present/CIES_DP1012.pdf Agricultural biotechnologies, and especially transgenic crops, have the potential to boost food security in developing countries by offering higher incomes for farmers and lower priced and better quality food for consumers. That potential is being heavily compromised, however, because the European Union and some other countries have implemented strict regulatory systems to govern their production and consumption of genetically modified (GM) food and feed crops, and to prevent imports of foods and feedstuffs that do not meet these strict standards. This paper analyses empirically the potential economic effects of adopting transgenic crops in Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. It does so using a multi-country, multi-product model of the global economy. The results suggest the economic welfare gains from crop biotechnology adoption are potentially very large, and that those benefits are diminished only very slightly by the presence of the European Union;s restriction on imports of GM foods. That is, if developing countries retain bans on GM crop production in an attempt to maintain access to EU markets for non-GM products, the loss to their food consumers as well as to farmers in those developing countries is 







Document Number: 719
on our experiences, education, philosophy, religion; all of the things that make us who we are. While these individual characteristics are valuable and important, they can lead us to react inappropriately to people who have views that are different than ours. They can also cause us to be combative rather than receptive to proposals of dialogue. One particular example of bias preventing dialogue is conspiracy theories involving ;big ag;. There exists these ideas that everyone who interacts with ;big ag; is somehow part of ;big ag;. People who subscribe to this view include farmers as part of ;big ag;, as described by Nate Taylor on All Things Agriculture : You obviously have many issues with the current food system, and I do not disagree that there are many to go after, but including the farmer in that mix and then calling them Big-Ag because it is easy and people ;understand it; doesn;t help and creates divides. I am not Big-Ag and never have been. There is a real interaction between farmers and ;big ag;. They buy products from and sell their crops to corporations that are considered to be part of ;big ag;. This doesn;t mean that the farmers are 







Document Number: 9069
thought Hitler was a bad fella ; these guys could show him a thing or two ; and they;re creeping up on us quietly without guns or anything like that, but the poison is there. The longer the GM debate went on, the likelihood that someone would invoke the big baddie approached 1 and has now been met. The comparison just doesn;t make any sense. Happily, the great GM debate is now over. According to Wikipedia, a corollary of Godwin;s Law is that ;once such a comparison is made, the thread is finished and whoever mentioned the Nazis has automatically ;lost; whatever debate was in progress.; That was easy. &lt;wipes hands&gt; Ok, enough of the silliness, I won;t actually stoop to Ms. Fulton;s level. There are plenty of real issues to discuss. While it is unclear in the extremely biased Australian Times article whether Ms. Fulton was referring to farmers who grew GM crops or to the companies selling them, I;m willing to bet it was the latter. Like many anti-GM activists, Ms. Fulton rails against big corporations selling the seed. Specifically, she demonizes them because they ;push the benefits;. This is just absurd ; what corporation or person attempting 







Document Number: 7061
feeling that Dr. Benbrook started with a conclusion and found data to fit rather than starting with a general review then finding significant conclusions. It;s not that I necessarily have any specific problems with the information Dr. Benbrook presents, it;s just that I think he;s leaving some key ideas out of the report that should have been considered. There are also generalizations that just aren;t warranted. There are a lot of problems with this report, but I;m particualrly concerned with the way Dr. Benbrook fails, for the most part, to distinguish between different biotech traits, fails to distinguish and between different pesticides, and fails to consider non-biotech traits that could increase pesticide use. First, all GMOs are not created equal. The two biotech traits currently on the market are herbicide tolerance and insect resistance (Bt). These traits are obviously very different, but most of the report just lumps them together as ;GE crops;, even though the report clearly states multiple times that Bt crops have reduced insecticide use. For example: Bt corn and cotton have delivered consistent reductions in insecticide use totaling 64.2 million pounds over the 13 years. Bt corn reduced insecticide use by 32.6 million pounds, or by 







Document Number: 2511
though, because one of the other panelists ( Jeffery Smit h, a former Iowa political candidate for the Natural Law Party with no discernible scientific or agricultural training) believes that eating GE crops causes infertility, organ damage and endocrine disruption. Of course, the scientific evidence for these statements is about as strong as saying that looking at carrots will give you brain tumors. Can the audience glean that from the information presented on the show? I am afraid not. What we do know is that after 14 years of consumption there has been not a single instance of harm to human health or the environment ( and many indisputable benefit s). I did my best to refute the worst ;woo woo pseudoscience; but it was difficult. I asked the producers (who were very nice by the way) to remove the scary graphics and bullet points but no luck. I argued that showing that stuff would tarnish Dr. Oz;s reputation and harm his viewers (who are now probably terrified- I can just imagine my mother-in-law taking note on all the ;points; made). I had a chance to plug some great science-based, academic, non-profit sites ( bioforitifed,or g, ucbiotech.org and academicsreview.org ) 







Document Number: 6202
Instead of writing about genetically modified plants, I;m going to spend a large portion of my time writing about genetically modified insects and insect pathogens. It may seem odd to some that a blog that mostly focuses on controversies in modern agriculture would ask someone who studies insects to write on their site, but it;s not as counter intuitive as you think. Insects are a huge part of agriculture because they are our biggest competitors for food. One of the most common types of genetically modified corn, the various BT cultivars, were developed to fight the European Corn Borer, Ostrinia nubilalis , which is a tiny Crambid moth which burrows into the stalks of the plants and eventually kills them. An entomologist writing for a site which explores the politics of Genetically Modified Organisms makes sense for another reason, and that;s because entomologists sometimes modify the genes of insects in order to do their work. Some of this occurs naturally, through the actions of polydnavirus particles some parasitoid wasps inject into their hosts to control the behavior, development, and immune reactions of that host. Sometimes it;s simple and artificial such as releasing insects sterilized with X-ray radiation in order to 







Document Number: 7891
Christianity needed some 1500 years before it;s wake-up call came on 31 October 1517 when Martin Luther nailed 95 theses on the door of the castle church in Wittenberg . These are fast moving times, and environmentalism;s changed much faster than Christianity did. Forty-seven years after the publication of Rachel Carson;s Silent Spring , the corresponding key date to 10/31/1517 in the reformation of environmentalism, is the day in 2009 when Stewart Brand;s Whole Earth Discipline: an Ecopragmatist Manifesto reached the bookstores. It;s not what Stewart Brand says that important (and there is quite a bit I disagree with in the book). It is the open-minded and pragmatic way he goes about questioning the down-side of the romanticism that has dominated the environmentalist movement of the last 48 years. He points out where scientific environmental pragmatism and scepticism got submerged by quasi-religious faith in big ideas that are often wrong. It is these wrong big ideas are now both harming people, and harming the reputation of environmentalism. Environmentalism needs a Martin Luther to rescue it;s reputation. As he rightly says ;it;s fortunate that there are so many romantics in the movement, because they are the ones who inspired the majority 







Document Number: 1350
have more than two fingers. I;ve never taken a course in ecology, and I;ve rarely dealt with full, intact organisms. It is with just such a background that I absorbed a talk by Allison Snow at Rutgers ten days ago. Snow* is an evolutionary biologist and ecologist who;s been running an interesting experiment on wild radishes for more than a decade now. In the 90;s, when transgenic crops like Bt corn and Roundup Ready soybean were beginning to dominant the market (and the landscape), there were concerns that wild relatives would incorporate the transgenes and spread as superweeds. Corn and soybean, with their lack of compatible relatives in the US, are exempt from this concern. However, as more and more transgenic crops with compatible relatives come down the pipeline (and with some, like canola, already here) there needs to be some hard data on just how easily transgenes can persist and spread in wild populations. Wild Radish. USDA-NRCS PLANTS Database. Domestic radish ( Raphanus sativus ), like nearly all domesticated crops, differs profoundly from its wild relative ( Raphanus raphanistrum ). The traits that make for a delicious ingredient in a salad often make for a wimpy competitor in the 







Document Number: 7926
should be a mandatory label. For example, a label that a product contains nuts is justified by severe allergic reactions, even though the additional label may add to the cost of a product for people who don;t have allergies. Any label that doesn;t have a proven hazard is simply a label of preference, so should not be mandatory. Instead, voluntary labels are appropriate. For example, producers may choose to label products as free from animal products if they think the cost of sourcing non-animal ingredients, testing, and labeling will be rewarded by additional purchases of their products by vegetarians and vegans. Non-vegetarians shouldn;t have to pay for a label is based on preference, not science. Practical concerns are not the only reason to label or not label foods, however. Ethics definitely comes into play. Do people have a right to labels, such as labels that indicate a product contains ingredients derived from genetically modified organisms? Chris MacDonald Chris MacDonald, Associate Professor in the Philosophy Department at Saint Mary;s University , has written about the ethics of labeling GMOs at The Food Ethics Blog : Should Companies Label Genetically Modified Foods? and in a peer-revied paper Corporate Decisions about Labelling Genetically 







Document Number: 9393
International Competition for Agricultural Production Land is Rising Dramatically The food situation in poor countries continues to deteriorate. On World Food Day, October 16th, the number of starving people worldwide will have reached a staggering 925 million. ;Even assuming the very best possible scenario, the poorest nations will fail by a wide margin to produce enough food to feed their own populations over the coming decades,; says Harald von Witzke, President of the Humboldt Forum for Food and Agriculture. ;This rapidly growing shortfall can only be met if richer nations are able to produce and export more food. So far, the EU has turned a blind eye to this looming crisis. Despite the urgent need for immediate action, this important issue has received little or no publicity.; Von Witzke believes that the EU has neglected critical investment in agricultural research for far too long. In the meantime, it has become the world;s biggest net importer of agricultural produce. This means that in order to meet its own demand for food, natural fibres, bio-energy and other agricultural products, the EU uses a virtual land area in other countries of about 35 million hectares, equivalent to the size of Germany. The last 







Document Number: 6433
out of the host. 4-5.) Cells in the female reproductive organs begin producing viral particles. In Polydnaviruses, Nature;s GMOs , I explained how polydnaviruses disabled host immune defenses through genetic modification. A post after that, I discussed how polydnaviruses use modified insect proteins to interfere with these systems. So if you;re a biologically-minded person, there;s one question you should be asking yourself. It;s a rather important question because it;s answer could shed light on what makes these wasps species-specific, and this is essential for any biocontrol project. So;how did they evolve? These systems have arisen at least three times independently with different viruses. The Ichneumonid wasps use polydnaviruses which are derived from Ascoviruses, which are DNA viruses which infect invertebrates. The genus Nasonia uses poxviruses in a manner which is probably the same as the Ichnoviruses and Bracoviruses. We;ll discuss the Ichnovirus and Bracovirus system as examples of model systems. Most eukaryotic genomes are essentially old battlegrounds between critters and their viruses. Viruses can go through a process called endogenization, which is when a virus integrates into the genome of a eukaryotic cell. Viral DNA will occasionally integrate into an organism;s genome and then get deactivated either by mutation or 







Document Number: 7618
incredible new spray that kills, say, Phytophthora infestans , you;d know that somewhere in the world there is a little P. infestans mycelium or spore that is already resistant. If you start spraying thousands and thousands of acres with your new pesticide, you may have a season or a few without late blight, but it;s only a matter of time before this little guy gets into your field and finds a smorgasbord all for himself (to a lesser extent, this probably also applies to multicellular weed and insect pests). This is one of the primary critiques of modern ag monocultures. The 1970 Southern corn leaf blight epidemic is a great example of what happens when a lucky germ stumbles onto a crop that can no longer defend itself. Luckily for us, this is pretty rare. Simple mutations that provide microbes instantaneous resistance to a pesticide (or to a plant;s genetic disease resistance) tend to have pretty nasty side effects (think human resistance to malaria via sickle cell anemia ). This means that stacking up multiple disease resistance genes (natural or transgenic) in a single plant increases the chance not only that no local microbes will be resistant, but also that 







Document Number: 983
glances. Instead, I read deeply and find out more. This post is going to be long, but I think the length is justified since the article has been diligently repeated on Common Dreams and Grist , and of course picked up by Digg and used as part of an anti-GM riff at the DailyKos and other political blogs. Frankly, Im tired of seeing science get twisted to suit an agenda, and Im going to report some facts. The first sentence of Exposed is clearly sensationalist: Genetic modification actually cuts the productivity of crops, an authoritative new study shows, undermining repeated claims that a switch to the controversial technology is needed to solve the growing world food crisis. Nevermind that scientists never state findings in such definite terms. Any result is simply a hypothesis that hasnt been rejected. It isnt fact until it has been corroborated by multiple studies by other researchers, and until it has been published in a peer reviewed journal of consequence. Thats simply the way science works. I suppose the enthusiasm can be chalked up to journalistic license. The results of this study were published in the quarterly Better Crops (the full name of the publication is 







Document Number: 1544
Why organic foods are an indulgence the world cant afford posted yesterday has the headline: Theyre not healthier or better for the environment and theyre packed with pesticides. In an age of climate change and shortages, these foods are an indugence [sic] the world cant afford, argues environmental expert Rob Johnston. He makes a lot of good points, but without proof, the points are nothing. Ill just run through the list pointing out some flaws and gems in the article. Myth one: Organic farming is good for the environment A litre of organic milk requires 80 per cent more land than conventional milk to produce, has 20 per cent greater global warming potential, releases 60 per cent more nutrients to water sources, and contributes 70 per cent more to acid rain. These numbers are surprising, but not altogether different from what Ive read elsewhere. Organically grown food can have yields comparable to conventional in good years, but doesnt yield as well when stressed with pests and unideal climate. So, in our imperfect world full of droughts, corn borers, and various fungi to name a few ; organic fields are often less productive, requiring more land to grow the same amount 







Document Number: 4274
, and they claim to have confirmed that it was written by Dr. Huber. You can find the full text of the letter on the FRFA site with the ominous title Researcher: Roundup or Roundup-Ready Crops May Be Causing Animal Miscarriages and Infertility . The story has been picked up by many bloggers, including Jill Richardson , and even made an appearance on Reuters . I haven;t seen any posts dedicated to a critical analysis of the letter, instead there is a rush to assume that it is correct, despite the lack of citations or other evidence provided for the extraordinary claims in the letter. The story is often accompanied with horrific pictures of dead fetal calves and the words ;Emergency!; and ;Danger!; Are we really all in danger? The claims in the letter bring to mind Carl Sagan;s famous statement: ;extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.; Let;s investigate the claims and determine whether enough evidence is provided. ;This organism appears NEW to science!; In the letter, Dr. Huber claims that there is a never-before-seen pathogen that is caused by or exacerbated by either glyphosate containing Roundup herbicide or the widely used glyphosate resistance gene. The letter opens: A team of 







Document Number: 4517
getting well-used. It is helping us get an idea what issues readers want to discuss apart from what;s on the minds of the blog authors. This forum was one of our top priorities to put together, among several that Anastasia and I came up with during a telephone meeting a few months ago. What I would like to do is reiterate the things we would like to add to the blog, and see what other kinds of features readers and users would like to see. In the coming weeks, I plan to give the blog a much-needed visual and functional update. Biofortified is run with WordPress, which allows for an enormous set of possibilities. I plan to replace the blog;s current theme with a more functional updated one that will look similar. The fading features gallery seen before on the blog will return, which was lost because of a conflict between the current theme and a recent wordpress update. Along the sidebar, we have added Frank;s Twitter widget, an awards section (hopeful for more!), and a Networked Blogs widget that shows who is following the blog in Facebook. With the updated theme, I will also add a much-needed ;Latest Forum 







Document Number: 7656
leads a group of students calling for the school to reverse her decision, GMO Safety reports. The story was also reported in NatureNews . The protesters have destroyed fields almost every year since 1996, when researchers at HfWU first started to study transgenic crops. One of the biggest arguments against genetic engineering is that it is untested. The students at HfWU worry that the only research on genetic engineering will be conducted by big corporations, if they can no longer research at universities. Sadly, the same has been happening in the US. The entire interview with Kathrin can be found below GMO Safety: In early April, GM opponents occupied a trial field at the HfWU, rendering it largely unfit for deliberate release experiments. What do you make of this type of protest? Kathrin Mendler: The fields were destroyed in previous years too when the maize was trampled on and pulled up after sowing. It is important for people to freely express their opinion, but I think its completely wrong to do it this way. You can find ways to put your point across without destroying other peoples property. It annoys me that they treat the property of others like this, 







Document Number: 2972
its long history. After I walked out of the NCCC-167 meeting to pick up my name tag and conference book for MGC, Anastasia had just arrived and we started chatting about many of the things that have been going on with the blog, and in the world. We put up our posters (Anastasia has a research poster and one for MaizeResearch.org, and I brought our latest blog poster) and had dinner. That;s when the first awesome thing happened. When we sat down at a table with our food, a guy named Carl sat down across from us. He took a look at our name tags and told us he knows ; and likes ; our blog. First name-recognition from the blog! We talked with him and the other members of the ad-hoc table party about what we all do, and interesting issues in genetic engineering. We learned a little about GE crop regulations and how bizarringly strict they can be sometimes. For instance, many regulations require that every base pair in the plasmid you use to transform a GE crop be accounted for. The sequence is the easy part, however often times these circular pieces of DNA that genetic engineers 







Document Number: 6079
stayed in a tiny room in a traditional Korean house called a ;Hanok; house. There is a courtyard that everyone shares that the owners have filled with lots of stuff including a rabbit named Mimi. In this quiet place, one can imagine ancient times before the rebirth of this powerful nation that was almost totally destroyed by the Korean war (1950-1953). Now, although most cities are dominated by massive buildings and congestion and where many restaurants are run by industry giants such as Samsung and Hyundai, a quieter life and traditional foods can still be found in the alleyways and countryside. Our first night there, Audrey got up in the middle of the night to sit in the courtyard in the pouring rain. When the lightening got too fierce and frightening she returned to our futon put her head on the buckwheat pillow and slept so soundly that her jet lag was over with the first night. The diet staple here is rice. According to the FAO , 47% of the total caloric intake in Korea were supplied by rice in 1965. These percentages decreased to 35% in 1995, due to incorporation of other foods in the diet. We have 







Document Number: 7866
toxins. A few things have happened in the middle to late 20th century that have turned the tables on food. First, in the developed world, we now have an excess of food. The worry has shifted from having too little to eat, to having too much. Second, the technology of food manufacture has allowed for an exquisite variety of highly palatable foods. The human biological urge for sweets, and probably fats, can be indulged with foods that are higher in both than any in nature. Third, advances in microbiology and nutrition, often implemented by government regulations make the food supply very low in toxins or harmful micro-organisms. Nutritional supplementation and guidelines make it relatively difficult to consume a seriously imbalanced diet. Fourth, as a result of what is sometimes called the epidemiological revolution, infectious and other acute diseases have been greatly reduced in incidence, and can be cured in the great majority of cases. The result of this has been a substantial increase in human longevity, and a shift from acute infectious to chronic degenerative diseases as the main cause of death. Fifth, information about the health effects of different patterns of food intake, and different foods, has become widely 







Document Number: 4722
Study Week as an open source Volume of NEW BIOTECHNOLOGY of Elsevier and the Pontifical Academy of Sciences Food security ; sufficient nutritious food at all times to live a healthy and productive life ; is one of the prime challenges for mankind. On the background of the public debate about the potential contribution from transgenic plants and the interest of the Vatican in the this challenge, the Pontifical Academy of Sciences was inviting an interdisciplinary group of independent public sector scientists, known for their scientific rigor and their engagement in social justice, to analyze the peer- reviewed state of science about transgenic plants and to explore the conditions under which the obvious potential of this technology could be made available in a better way for public good and the poor. In summary, the program of the study week was designed (a) to present the potential of plant genetic engineering to contribute to food security, (b) to analyze the causes for the obvious exclusion of the public sector and projects from the delivery of public goods and (c) to develop concepts how to improve the situation to the benefit of the poor. The participants represented a wide and interdisciplinary range 







Document Number: 3705
in New Zealand, where experimenting with genetically engineered food is highly regulated, tasting was banned. How was this forbidden fruit created? By overexpression of an apple transcription factor in the white-fleshed, tasty Royal Gala variety. The transcription factor was isolated from an apple that has both red flesh and red skin, that occurs in Central Asia. However, these apples are normally quite bitter tasting so some genetic manipulation was needed to create a new variety that was red but had good flavor. The GE apple carries at least 5000x more anthocyanins than the Royal Gala. The work was led by Andrew Allan at Plant ; Food Research , a non-profit research institute in New Zealand. Richard Espley, a molecular biologist at Plant ; Food Research, was named one of the MacDiarmid Young Scientists of the Year for his work in apple genetics. The Plant and Food scientists are also trying to develop a red-fruited Royal Gala using marker assisted breeding but do not yet have a commercially viable product. Take a look at this great video describing their work: By the way, if I had not been able to resist temptation, and had bit into the apple (without approval from 







Document Number: 3896
technology, and indeed the ludicrous reaction of GM Watch in particular, to creationist tactics against evolutionary biology. On the other hand, on Orac;s medical blog, he made the comparison between those groups and the Alternative Medicine crowd, including and especially the Anti-vaccination groups. It is fascinating to note that politically, the creationist version of antiscience is conservative, and the anti-vax version is generally liberal. But they share a commonality in that science is rejected as the best means of obtaining knowledge, and something else, be it political or religious ideology takes its place and dictates the facts. I thought it would be a good idea to write a post detailing several of them, and then Steve Savage at Sustainablog went and did it for me. Check out The Bizarre, Modern Coalition of Anti-Science Forces . He didn;t cover every kind, but he delves into several of them including anti-GE forces, anti-global warming activities, and the antiscience-of-the-year, it seems, Anti-vaccination. In the comments section a reader confirms exactly what he is talking about. In the blog discussions that ensued while the voting went on, a few fights broke out over one issue or another, but a very strong sentiment was expressed 







Document Number: 688
Well, I;ve had a little time to mull the ideas over and the motivation of achieving a decent grade in Foundations in Sustainable Agriculture. The result is the following paper about framing agriculture in different ways, and how those frames might hold us back from achieving a truly sustainable agriculture. Let me know what you think! New ways of looking at agriculture Analytical frameworks can be helpful in putting peoples ideas about agriculture, and indeed many other things, into context. In Integrating Sustainability into Agricultural Education, Wals and Bawden (2005, p. 30-32) describe dichotomous ways to see the world. Academics like Wals and Bawden and their predecessors and successors invent and use analytical frameworks to help describe ways of thinking. These frameworks, based on philosophical theory, are artificial divisions. No single one of them is right or correct, theyre just different ways to describe the same things. Nonetheless, it can be very helpful to categorize the ways that people frame the world around them. If we work to understand the frameworks that people use to view agricultural problems and solutions, we might be better able to communicate with people that have frameworks that differ from our own. Improved communication and 







Document Number: 4522
This conference brought farmers, consumers, and seeds from all over the Midwest to attend some workshops about everything from producing seed, to building healthy soils, to market farming and even some were about genetic engineering. Karl was also there and he reminded me that I still have a lot of pictures from my travels last year that I haven;t put up on the blog. So now that I;m back in Berkeley (there;s a story about that which I will tell), I am not wasting any time showing you how much fun I had! Anastasia has set up a Flickr account for the blog, which you can see on the Photos page ! This has made it so much easier for me. I may be smarter than the average corn but all this web stuff is confusing. You can see the pictures from my whole trip in the Flickr photo album hosted on Biofortified here , on the Flickr site , or read more below. Seed Swap! I can;t wait! The fine folks at Vermont Valley Community Farm have got some seed potatoes here of all kinds of colors. Jonnah (holding me) likes the blue ones the best. Their little tubers 







Document Number: 5661
scientists, all working on the genetics of; me! Well me and my brothers and sisters in the great Zea mays family. My flight was delayed, so I missed the first part of the conference. Luckily someone filled me in on what happened. Apparently I;m 1.4 percent Helitron! Good deal. I managed to get there just in time for the first viewing session for posters. But three geneticists barred my way saying ;Is this guy legit?; I thought they didn;t recognize me, but they were pulling my leg, I was expected! That was a relief! I wouldn;t want to miss these posters. This is my favorite part of scientific meetings. Meeting people, seeing what cool stuff they;re working on. Like Patrice, here, who was comparing the chromosomes of some of my cousins by FISH mapping repeat sequences. That means that wherever there were repetitive segments of DNA of different kinds, she made them glow different colors under the microscope! I wish I could show them to you but this stuff is unpublished. And she was simply glowing to see me. Later that evening, I listened to a big presentation by Pam Johnson from the National Corn Grower;s Association. My favorite part 







Document Number: 1211
as well as the big ones like potassium. We can do our best to replace the nutrients with fertilizers (synthetic or organic) but will never match mother nature. So, what do we do? Biochar is plant matter (such as corn stover) that has undergone pyrolysis (heating without oxidation). To put it extremely simply, biochar is a large quantity of biomass ;condensed; into a smaller quantity of charcoal. All of the minerals in the biomass are now in the biochar. Increasing soil health in the form of microbes is another positive effect of biochar. Plants grown in biochar do better than plants in unamended soil (see picture at right, no info on a comparison to conventional or organic soil amendments. I;ll let the International Biochar Initiative (IBI) explain: Biochar is a fine-grained charcoal high in organic carbon and largely resistant to decomposition. It is produced from pyrolysis of plant and waste feedstocks. As a soil amendment, biochar creates a recalcitrant soil carbon pool that is carbon-negative, serving as a net withdrawal of atmospheric carbon dioxide stored in highly recalcitrant soil carbon stocks. The enhanced nutrient retention capacity of biochar-amended soil not only reduces the total fertilizer requirements but also the climate 







Document Number: 3279
countries especially those where corn is a staple food against fumonisin, a toxin produced by fungi. Until now, physicians thought the growth retardation of children in those regions was to be blamed on the poor nutritional value of the complementary maize porridge they receive when breast milk is no longer sufficient. But toxins indeed are involved, the scientists report in the journal Molecular Nutrition and Food Research. The call is made by scientists of the Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp and their colleagues of the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority and Gent University. Until now, not much attention was paid to mycotoxins in food (mycotoxins are toxins produced by fungi) with the exception of aflatoxin, of mouldy nuts ill fame. But their research in rural Tanzania does connect fumonisin with stunting and underweight. It is the first time anybody establishes this association. Worldwide, 1 child in 3 suffers from growth retardation and 1 in 4 is underweight. The problems of stunting and underweight are associated with over 5 million deaths of children less than 5 years annually. 70% of these deaths are concentrated in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Malnutrition is implicated in the majority of these deaths. Already in 







Document Number: 8675
defined*. Both proponents and opponents in the comments and in the official statements had off topic ideas, depending on how they framed the assertion. It;s really a shame because this could have been an opportunity to really discuss how we can forge a new agriculture that is less harmful for the environment. The discussion really needs to include proponents of and experts in genetic engineering, plant breeding, agronomy like Pamela Ronald and Sir Gordon Conway , proponents of and experts in sustainable agriculture, like Matt Liebman and Charles Benbrook , and perhaps most importantly everyday people. If we;re really committed to moving towards a better agriculture for everyone , we need to get past labels, get past ideology, and cooperate. Biofortified was designed to be a place where we can have that discussion, but just like the Economist debate, discussion here can easily get derailed with ideas that are important but not directly related to the topic at hand. The off topic discussion can be really interesting, but decreases the likelihood that we;ll reach any agreement on the main topic. I wonder if reframing of a subject with a slightly more narrow focus would help. In the case of the 







Document Number: 1066
frost-free wheat, the opposite is reported in the UK. The Daily Express reports that GM crops could send food prices rocketing . Wha? In order to understand this claim, you have to take into account the market and regulatory environment in the United Kingdom. As far as I know, the only GE crop that can currently be grown in the UK is Bt maize, although there is talk of more crops being approved in the near future. They also import most of the soybeans used in animal feed from South America, which is growing more and more GE soy each year. Although GE soy can be imported into the UK, it appears that there are still restrictions on these imports that make it difficult for much of this soy to get into the country. Currently, also, foods derived from genetically engineered crops must be labeled as such in the UK, as noted here, some food manufacturers and fast food chains source their soy from non-GE farms. Although it appears that people in the EU don;t care or don;t even read the labels , there is a substantial market for non-GE soy for producers who do business in the UK. Meat 







Document Number: 2198
like to make some quick comments on gene flow. First, pollen of many types of plants are capable of traveling quite far. The exact distances are dependent on wind, weather, plant density, species, etc. For the most part, though, pollen stays near its origin, so that gene flow between separated populations is slow (not many fertilizations between populations). It is fairly easy to test gene flow and pollen spread rates. An elegant example was prepared by Jason Haegle, an undergraduate at Iowa State under distinguished professor Peter Peterson . As described in The Flow of Maize Pollen in a Designed Field Plot , Jason planted purple corn surrounded by yellow corn. He planted the rows 0.76 meters apart (much wider than normal) to eliminate any effect of plant density. He simply counted the purple kernels on the ears in the yellow corn fields to determine how much and how far the pollen spread. Yellow corn plants that were closest to the purple corn of course had the most purple kernels. Three rows into the yellow corn, numbers of purple kernels (thus amounts of pollen from those plants) dropped dramatically. Other studies on maize pollen flow agree that the majority of 







Document Number: 5707
Cotton Genome Sequencing ST. LOUIS and SAN DIEGO (Sept. 22, 2010) The complicated cotton genome is one step closer to having its genetic threads unraveled, thanks to a key research milestone completed and announced today by Monsanto Company (NYSE:MON) and San Diego-based Ilumina Inc. (NASDAQ: ILMN). &nbsp;Combining Monsantos knowledge of cotton genomics and Illumina;s next generation sequencing technology, a critical landmark has been achieved that could lead to the development of cotton crops with higher yields, better fiber quality, and greater resistance to diseases and pests. The two companies have completed sequencing a wild Peruvian cotton species, Gossypium raimondii , and will donate their findings to the public. The completion of G. raimondii will aid public and private researchers in their quest to sequence the more elusive genome of domesticated cotton, G. hirsutum . Domesticated cotton, more commonly known as American Upland cotton, accounts for more than 95 percent of U.S. production. Its genome has proven difficult to sequence and assemble because of its large size as well as the large quantity of repetitive DNA. The cotton genome, at about 2.7 billion nucleotides, is roughly comparable to the human genome at 3.2 billion. Additionally, most organismsincluding humanshave two sets of 







Document Number: 8050
16-year-olds should be allowed to create transgenic Escherichia coli bacteria in the classroom. Practical experiments in which students learn how to use plasmids to alter the DNA of the bacteria have been under way for 17 and 18-year-olds in the final year of the scientific baccalaureate at schools across France for the past decade. But this year teachers have for the first time been offered the option of teaching the experiments to younger students. The Committee for Research &amp; Independent Information on Genetic Engineering (CRIIGEN) in Caen, France, which lobbies for stricter controls over genetic engineering, is particularly upset because in the experiments the students modify the bacteria to become resistant to the antibiotic ampicillin.* Gilles-Eric Sralini, president of the organization;s scientific committee, says that CRIIGEN is in favour of genetic engineering, as long as it is properly controlled. But the necessary restrictions are not currently in place, he says. CRIIGEN ;will urge the education ministry to impose a moratorium until a full debate on the question is organized;, says Sralini. ;We believe such material should not be manipulated by students before they reach university.; He warns against trivialization of a sensitive subject, contamination risks and possible violation of European 







Document Number: 6194
can be stunningly beautiful, and sometimes silly. Margaret Clarke researches the soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum using biotechnology. Dr. Clarke is officially retired, but as a dedicated scientist, she;s continuing her work. She visited Iowa State yesterday and today. Phagocytosis of a bacterium by an immune cell (on a tee shirt!) by Zazzle. In particular, Dr. Clarke studies phagocytosis ; literally ;cell eating;. These amoeba are single celled organisms that eat bacteria (and just about any bacteria-sized particle that might be nutritious). Phagocytosis is the process of forming a cup that engulfs the prey, drawing the prey into the phagocyte, and digesting the prey. Her work has important applications in human medicine, as the phagocytosis process takes place in special phagocytic cells that are part of the immune system of humans and other animals. Learning how phagocytosis works in amoeba can help us to understand how it works in the immune system. Before biotechnology came around, Dr. Clarke used biochemical analysis to determine what sorts of compounds were at work in actively phagocytising cells. She was able to find out that both actin and myosin were present. While this was important information (people used to think myosin was only present in 







Document Number: 1113
to even consider until extraordinary proof is provided (and preferably replicated by another lab and peer reviewed), Don Huber;s claims that Roundup (specifically the active ingredient glyphosate) weakens crops by binding minerals in the soil seems to have at least some merit, at least enough to be taken seriously and examined further. Over the years since Roundup Ready (RR) crops have been released, independent researchers have conducted many studies to determine whether there is a specific problem with some crop varieties with the RR gene, with all crops with the RR gene, or with glyphosate itself. Overall, the research shows that there may be some concern about glyphosate reducing availability of some minerals when the soil is deficient in those minerals. The research hasn;t found a problem with the RR gene itself. It is important to note that the stack of peer reviewed papers indicating glyphosate to be a problem with disease or yield is much smaller than the stack indicating there is no problem. We must look at the entire body of evidence, not just cherry pick one or a few papers, in order to get a clear understanding of what;s really happening. Happily, extension experts from multiple universities 







Document Number: 6359
food and fuel crops Forests of genetically altered trees and other plants could sequester several billion tons of carbon from the atmosphere each year and so help ameliorate global warming, according to estimates published in the October issue of&nbsp; BioScience . The&nbsp; study, by researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and Oak Ridge National Laboratory , outlines a variety of strategies for augmenting the processes that plants use to sequester carbon dioxide from the air and convert it into long-lived forms of carbon, first in vegetation and ultimately in soil. Besides increasing the efficiency of plants; absorption of light, researchers might be able to genetically alter plants so they send more carbon into their roots;where some may be converted into soil carbon and remain out of circulation for centuries. Other possibilities include altering plants so that they can better withstand the stresses of growing on marginal land, and so that they&nbsp; yield improved bioenergy and food crops . Such innovations might, in combination, boost substantially the amount of carbon that vegetation naturally extracts from air, according to the authors; estimates. The researchers stress that the use of genetically engineered plants for carbon sequestration is only one of many policy initiatives 







Document Number: 1988
Australias former Chief Scientist, Dr Jim Peacock. Our Green Revolution is near spent. The enormous and lasting gains made in crop yield through conventional plant breeding, mechanization, crop protection and clever agronomy are slowing. But the next era for mainstream broadacre farming is already here, it might well be called the Gene Revolution. More than 95% of Australias near 400,000 hectare cotton crop this summer consists of GM varieties. And in only the 3rd year of commercial production, there are some 133,300 hectares of GM canola in NSW, Victoria and WA this spring an estimated 9% of the total canola crop. What else is coming over the hill? Well, you name it GM research underway in Australia covers: papaya, pineapple, sugarcane, grapevines, carnations, rice, white clover, wheat, Indian mustard, bananas, barley, perennial ryegrass, tall fescue, corn and roses. Most work is focusing on key traits which lessen production risks and underpin yield. The big-ticket item, GM wheat, is just 7 or more years away. Clearly, our farmers and their advisors, and the supply chain all the way through to customers and consumers, now need to start appreciating the GM reality, and separate myth from fact. Fact 1: GM science will 







Document Number: 5703
insects with radiation, it can kill rapidly reproducing cells. High doses of radiation can also damage the DNA in quickly reproducing gamete producing cells to the point where it can;t be read, creating severe mutations that stop important proteins from being made. In other words, sperm are produced, but they aren;t healthy. If female flies mate with one of these males, she won;t produce any offspring. If this happens enough on a large scale, the population plummets because females aren;t producing viable offspring. This technique has been used for years in various disciplines from medicine to agriculture. There;s always room for improvement, and this is no exception. These guys like fruit and long walks on the beach. Flash forward 50 years past the screwworm elimination program (discussed in part 1 ) and several other wildly successful programs. Greatly increased international travel allows pests to spread all over the globe. One pest, the Mediterranean fruit fly ( Ceratitis capitata or Medfly for short), has a host range of over 200 plant species. It specializes on crops where just about any damage justifies control. Medfly larvae feed inside the fruit, so they;re really hard to control because there aren;t Bt crops available 







Document Number: 743
Malaria is caused by a parasite which ruptures blood cells in unison. African trypanosomiasis makes you go to sleep and then die. Dengue fever lays you up in bed for six months in some of the worst agony imaginable. Hell, even veterinary VBDs are horrifying; outbreaks of rift valley fever usually present with random farm animal abortions. In 2008, malaria alone killed 708,000 to over a million people, most of them young children in sub-Saharan Africa, and an estimated 190 to 311 million cases of malaria occurred worldwide, according to the CDC . Diseases like malaria, may actually work to keep poor regions poor. Control methods often do not reach the poorest people due to high cost; vector borne diseases tend to be diseases of poverty. Check out this video made as a public service announcement in 1943 by Disney. Some of the control methods have changed, such as specific chemicals, but not that much. So; what can be done to help save lives in regions with VBD problems? We can vaccinate, in those few cases where vaccines have been developed, and we can kill the vectors, but vector control efforts can be expensive. Education and awareness is great, too; 







Document Number: 8057
mutations in insects. In part 2 , I explained how we can use genetic engineering to make these projects safer and easier. So; part 3. What;s the next step? Put it to the test! A system is only good if we can actually use it. We can test stuff in a laboratory and under cages all we want, but the tests only matter if they have an effect on real-world populations. This step has now been taken. Mosquitoes which have been modified by the Oxford-based company Oxitec to carry tetracycline repressible lethal genes (as described in part 2 ) are being released into the wild to combat outbreaks of Dengue fever in the Cayman Islands (see press release ). This real-world test will help us to see if this technique will work in real-world situations. It;s kind of pretty in a ;they;re gonna kill us all; kind of way. Image via Wikimedia. Dengue is largely spread by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes which feed pretty much only on humans and are present in the highest populations around our cities;they;re mosquitoes which have adapted to an urban lifestyle. They bite during the day, so we can;t use bed nets. They;re notoriously resistant to 







Document Number: 1703
part of their life cycle and be totally cool in another. It;s one of those weird science paradoxes which make the field of entomology so much fun. In my last series of posts I discussed a new way to bring down pest populations by letting transgenic insects mate with wildtype insects and letting their offspring wither and die from a toxin which builds up inside of them. It;s really just a variation of a technique that;s been around since the ;50s that uses a gene that codes for a toxin ( part 2 ) in place of radiation ( part 1 ). It;s great for everyone involved (except for the mosquitoes ; part 3 ), and it could even lead to the technique becoming more widespread by nixing the use of radiation all together. It turns out that on top of all that we may be able to make mosquitoes work to our advantage. Vaccines work by stimulating an immune response. In short, vaccines are made by either injecting a weakened version of the pathogen or a part of a pathogen like an important protein that;s part of the pathogen into a person. This coaxes the body into producing proteins 







Document Number: 4887
transgenic maize crops in the valley of Barranca, casting doubt on earlier claims by a researcher of their illegal existence. Those claims were central to a recent court case in which Ernesto Bustamante Donayre, a molecular biologist and vice-president of the Peruvian College of Biologists, was convicted of defamation after criticising research by Antonietta Ornella Gutirrez Rosati ; that purported to find evidence of such crops. The existence of the official report was revealed during an international biotechnology workshop organised by Peru;s National Institute of Agrarian Innovation (INIA) in June. Although it has not yet been published, SciDev.Net has gained access to it. The report examines 164 maize samples from the area, and concludes that there was not enough evidence to determine the presence of transgenic crops in the Barranca valley. In November 2007 Gutirrez, a biologist at the National Agricultural University of La Molina (UNALM), Peru, claimed in a newspaper article that she had found unauthorised transgenic maize in the valley. Such maize would have been illegal because any release of GM crops must have prior government approval, although the procedure is not clear as the country;s biosafety regulation is still under discussion. When Bustamante criticised Gutirrez;s study in 







Document Number: 165
and I come from down under ; the land of Vegemite and kangeroos. But it;s really nice to also be part of Biofortified. I;m passing on some old news and some fresher news in this post. Fish make you brainy, or so my dear, sadly missed mother used to tell me. But it is not just fish that makes you brainy. It;s also genetically modified soybean oils. And like fish, these new GM soybean oils can also make you healthier and live longer. Prof Bill Harris, a research group in South Dakota has announced that when overweight human volunteers are given food supplemented with a special new soybean oil, their blood chemistry changes quickly to have the healthy blood profile of omega-3 fats. Omega-3 content in the blood is a good index of improved health. The special soya bean oil that these human volunteers took in their diets was enriched in a natural omega-3 fatty acid called SDA. Genetic modification of soybeans is the best way to coax food crops to make healthy SDA fatty acid. Many other scientific reports establish that the blood composition change seen in people by Prof Harris correlates with improved cardiovascular health. Prof Bill Harris 







Document Number: 1259
Genetic Roulette 1.3 ). In many cases the differences that are claimed are not even statistically significant because the wrong statistical models are used. Quite often the assumptions used when apply the test are violated , and the old saying, &nbsp;a garbage in garbage out applies .When using statistical &nbsp;tests based on certain assumptions it is always important to always ask whether or not the assumptions are justified. But other statistical mistakes are being made when making claims about GM feed safety. A common one is to confuse statistical with practical and biological significance. Even when the assumptions of use a statistical test are justified, a statistical indicator that comes out of them may be of no practical medical or clinical importance. The results &nbsp;may be statistically significant but of no practical or biological importance. Indeed the differences can occur between feeds and foods which are of no importance whatsoever for food safety or nutrition. Most meals we eat are different from one another, but this usually does not matter. The basics of the common misinterpretation of statistical significance is explained extremely well by statistician Schuyler Huck in his great little book about the common misconceptions about statistics. GMO Pundit 







Document Number: 3551
in Western Australia interviewed Seralini on this matte r[link to ABC webpage], and also asked David Tribe to comment about the merits of Seralini;s scientific arguments (strongly criticised elsewhere on GMO Pundit website, for instance in &nbsp; Sad Seralini Statistical Saga &nbsp;and&nbsp; GMO statistics Part 5. FSANZ say non-validated statistical dredging doesn;t mean much ). Seralini has also been strongly criticised by expert statisticians for the mistakes he has made in analysing of experiments done with rats to see how they react to genetically modified corn feed. In this interview &nbsp;with David Tribe &nbsp;&nbsp;we hear about the difference between statistical significance (mentioned by Seralini) and biological significance (not properly evaluated by Seralini). Statistics by itself &nbsp;has very little to say about whether effects that can qualify as being ;statistically significant; are biologically or practically meaningful . Tiny differences that are practically not of any importance to all, or which have no medical or nutritional significance, can still be statistically significant. Many scientists have read the European Food Safety Authority;s demonstration that Seralini;s main conclusions are baseless, but we have yet to hear from Seralini about the comprehensive refutation of his statistical methods made by the European Food Safety Authority. Listen 







Document Number: 6909
diseases to humans in the Independent: ;Opponents fear bacteria inside the guts of animals fed the GM potato which can cause human diseases may develop resistance to antibiotics.; Groups that actively work against deregulation of genetically engineered crops have been making such claims for years. We;ve also seen these claims in peer-reviewed journals (although, far less frequently than in non-peer reviewed media and reports). For example, in the February 2009 issue of Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition , the review Health Risks of Genetically Modified Foods : ;An area of concern focuses on the possibility that antibiotic resistance genes used as markers in transgenic crops may be horizontally transferred to pathogenic gut bacteria, thereby reducing the effectiveness of antimicrobial therapy.; Are antibiotic marker genes in genetically engineered crops really a risk to human health? Many people have raised this question and there seems to be a lot of confusion about the issue. It;s time to look into the risks and reasons more deeply. What are antibiotic resistance genes for? Growing plants up from cells. By Mirkov via Michigan State University. In order to understand why these genes are used, we have to look a little at the process 







Document Number: 9371
March 28 Crop Biotech Update . I;ve posted the release below the cut for your convenience. One of the most exciting parts of the WEMA (Water Efficient Maize for Africa) project is that it pulls in such a diverse group ; including research entities from the participating countries, the well known non-profit CIMMYT , and the corporations Monsanto and BASF. In this project, the corporations will not charge any royalties to small scale farmers. I;m assuming they plan to make their profits from large farmers in the developed world that are now or will soon be experiencing destructive droughts, such as Australia. Clearing up licensing issues before a project begins seems to be the best course, especially if we consider the fate of Golden Rice. This ensures that the people who most need the technology will be able to afford it, and that protracted legal battles will be avoided. It;s easy to hate Monsanto at times (especially if you are anti-establishment), but it seems that the company is trying to be a better global citizen, if not for any other reason than to increase their potential customer pool. Who, besides Monsanto and a handful of other biotech companies, has the 







Document Number: 3083
information coming out of the First Global Conference on Biofortification. He wonders if the organizers and attendees were/are too focused on a techno-fix rather than on diverse diets as a solution. This being a conference on biofortification, we talked about biofortification a lot, and it could be argued that biofortification is a techno-fix, whether by breeding or biotechnology. However, we talked about a lot more at the conference, including supplementation and fortification, diverse diets and education, cooking and farming methods. To say that diverse diets were ignored would be incorrect. That obviously isn;t getting through in the materials coming out of the conference through the organizers or media, which is a problem. If we polled each conference attendee, I think most if not all would say that a diverse diet for every human on the planet is the ultimate goal. Many of the sessions addressed this specifically, getting into the details of how diet and nutrition are intertwined. Here are just three examples: Percentage of funds spent by families on different items before and after a 50% increase in food prices. The red and green blocks represent high-nutrient foods from plant and animal sources. Image from Howie Bouis;s plenary talk 







Document Number: 2191
to life. Of course, having Dr. Hector Avalos here helps to keep things interesting. The first ISU Daily article in this round, Avalos: Expelled wrong on Holocaust has accrued almost as many comments and letters to the editor as the articles about Gay Pride week. The whole subject is frustrating, because I dont think there is a controversy. No one should dictate what religious beliefs a person can or can not have. In this country, separation of church and state is a necessity (due to the many faiths or absence of faith present). Therefore, religion can not be taught in state funded schools. Period. If people want to study things other than approved evidence based curricula, they are welcome to do so at home. Dr. Gonzalez is also welcome to study these things, but not while he is on the payroll of a public university to study science. If he was a religious studies professor, things would have been entirely different. The NY Times reports today about Dr. Francisco Ayala, a former Dominican priest and current evolutionary biologist and geneticist at UC, Irvine. Dr. Ayalas thoughts on the ID / Evolution controversy are amazing, unlike any I have every seen. 







Document Number: 1901
it was too late to go, so this year I had it marked on my calendar, and I contacted the organizers months ago about a media pass. Now with my cheap hotel room reserved and fuel in the car I;m all set to go. What will I find at the conference? This is the first conference of this type that I have gone to, although I have been to an organic show-and-tell shindig here at the UW, this conference will be new to me. From looking at the schedule , it seems that it is mostly oriented toward farmers, but there should be plenty for me to check out . The first thing I will see when I get there is the seed swap, which will be a first for me. There is a possibility that I will be able to interview someone about seed saving and/or backyard breeding. Otherwise I;ll take a good look around and maybe get some comments from people. Saturday will be an interesting day for me, though. At 8:30 in the morning, Charles Benbrook from The Organic Center will be giving a talk: Telling the Story of Organic Food Health Saturday I ; 8:30am More 







Document Number: 4658
the program featured an abundance of voices from antitechnology organisations but gave no effective scrutiny of their scientific arguments or credentials. The object of The 7.30 Report discussion was a the new variety of corn bred by cross pollinating different existing corn varieties so that it contains eight different agriculturally advantageous traits. This is the so-called SmartStax corn. This contains six different protections against insect damage and two different versions of herbicide tolerance. SmartStax corn is a genetically modified food product so that component varieties of SmartStax corn have each been tested to ensure that they are completely equivalent to the non-GM parental variety in terms of nutritional and other effects on animals. ABC TV quotes a representative of the Adelaide-based organisation Institute of Health and Environment Research saying that this new corn is akin to a cocktail of drugs in terms of its hazard potential. The words polypharmacy effect are used, presumably meaning that the corn is like a cocktail of drugs. What is missing from this discussion is an analysis of whether a food is a drug. Staple foods and drugs are fundamentally different*. Corn is a food staple, and is digested to its harmless and nutritionally valuable 







Document Number: 2326
table. Another difficulty is that without full knowledge about how the world works, without practical engagement with the challenges of findingsolutions to real world problems, it;s easy to regard distant problems as being unimportant. The proverb out of sight out of mind comes to mind. One example of this is bad take-up in industrialised countries of vaccination programs for diseases which have seemingly been brought under control because of active vaccination programs. In the absence of raging disease parents think that diseases such as measles will not strike their own children. In the area of food production and abundant availability of food over the last 30 or 40 years seems to make future food security something we don;t have to worry about. So we should listen to debates about new technologies particularly keenly even though they are unpopular among many people:&nbsp; Leading environmental campaigners support nuclear and GM Leading environmental campaigners have performed a u-turn on two key technologies they have opposed for decades by openly calling for greater use of nuclear power and genetically modified crops to help the world tackle climate change. Daily Telegraph, UK,&nbsp;By Richard Gray, Science Correspondent Published: 10:15AM GMT 31 Oct 2010 The activists now 







Document Number: 8992
First, gather as many ingredients as you can from your garden. In our garden, I found multi-colored swiss chard, Kale, chives, thyme and parsley. Our young hens, Snickerdoodle, Lemon Drop, Raven, Cheez-It and Oreo provided the eggs. The backdrop to our garden is a mural on the side of our barn, painted with California poppies, rice plants, sunflowers and (look closely) a red double helix. Artist: Jim McCall, Elastic Media . Next, prepare the crust: 1 cup barley flour 2 cups white flour 1 tsp salt 1 cup unsalted butter 1/2 cup unsalted margarine, frozen grated rind of 1 lemon 1/2-3/4 c iced water Measure flours and salt into a Cuisinart fitted with a steel blade. Mix briefly. Add in diced butter and margarine. Chop until mixture resembles consistency of cornmeal. Remove from cuisinart and mix in the water an lemon rind with a fork. Shape into one large ball and one small ball. Refrigerate for 20 minutes or so. Roll out chilled dough on floured surface, in between 2 floured sheets of waxed paper. Place larger crust into a pie pan with a circumference of 28.3 inches (r=4.5 inches). Layer the rest of the cheese on the base. Trim 







Document Number: 6273
NYT, 2/20/09) All of the scientists have been active participants of the Regional Research Projects NCCC-46 ;Development, Optimization, and Delivery of Management Strategies for Corn Rootworms and Other Below-ground Insect Pests of Maize; and/or related projects with corn insect pests. The comment appears as follows: ;Technology/stewardship agreements required for the purchase of genetically modified seed explicitly prohibit research. These agreements inhibit public scientists from pursuing their mandated role on behalf of the public good, unless the research is approved by industry. As a result of restricted access, no truly independent research can be legally conducted on many critical questions regarding the technology, its performance, its management implications, IRM, and its interactions with insect biology. Consequently, data flowing to an EPA Scientific Advisory Panel from the public sector is unduly limited.; It appears that the leaders at these seed companies have not yet embraced the idea that the acceptance of GE crops is dependent upon peer-reviewed, scientific research that evaluates effectiveness, safety, or impact on non-target species. Without access and transparency and evaluation by independent scientists, it becomes impossible to determine the suitability of GE crops for agriculture. Hopefully, in the light of these comments to the EPA, the companies will 







Document Number: 5687
swept the competition in a landslide! Any moment now they will be the proud owner of a new Biofortified tote bag. Thanks for disagreeing with someone with politeness and respect and above all ; constructively ! Second, it seems that no one has yet entered our inaugural annual frankenfood carving contest , and the deadline was set for this coming Wednesday. Now I;m sure as you ghosts and goblins go to bed tonight on Halloween, there are scary pumpkins smoldering outside on your doorstep. Don;t throw them out ; take a picture and upload them to your profile and have a chance to share in a glorious victory. As of now, the contest deadline has been extended to Sunday, November 7th, at midnight Pacific, as always. And to sweeten the pot, the winner will not only get a cotton canvas tote bag with the blog emblem emblazoned on its side, they will be the first here to receive a very special gift ; A mint-condition Norman Borlaug commemorative coin! Fantastic! This special prize is courtesy of MaryM. A big thanks to Mary;s generosity! The coin is in its original plastic wrapper for you crop coin collectors. So now;s your chance 







Document Number: 4585
first GE Papaya resistant to Papaya Ringspot Virus, which grows there today (and even surrounds and protects organic plots of Papaya), and is currently investigating several other crops and their potential for improvement. Those efforts have been put in jeopardy recently as the council of the big island of Hawai;i banned the growing of GE taro and coffee with no allowance for continued academic research. Mayor Kim vetoed the ban, which was overturned by the council. In the debate over genetic engineering in Hawai;i, it is interesting to see anti-GE groups claim that farmers do not want the technology. First, it is the farmers who ultimately decide what to grow on their farms, and the mere fact that they are choosing to grow it wherever it is legal to do so is a testament to the fact that many actively do want to grow it. Another interesting point of contention is whether or not farmers will be helped or harmed by GE crops. In what I have read of the Hawai;ian debates, few actually depended upon the argument that GE crops aren;t tested enough for human consumption. It has been brought up, but the argument hasn;t held much weight because 







Document Number: 3647
ones like IBM, have programs that reward their employees for joining a gym or following a preventive health care regimen. Now, some employers are trying to affect their employees diets by offering healthier foods in their cafeterias and giving employees coupons for healthy prepared food items stocked in local grocery stores. Full Yield (a company that does not seem to have a website!) is a new company working to prepare the healthy food offerings that employees are encouraged to buy. Together with Harvard Pilgrim, an insurance company, Full Yield will track employee health to see if it improves with their food options. Why am I bringing this up at Biofortified? Sunshine quinoa salad by sonicwalker. Click the photo for the recipe. Via flickr. The prepared food from Full Yield is not your typical prepared food. ;The choices may include turkey chili, quinoa salads, salmon cakes, chicken tagine, mixed bean wraps and whole-grain peanut butter cookies,; according to the Times article. Employees in the program are encouraged to eat only Full Yield items or similar whole food meals prepared at home. In these few menu items I see a swath of biodiversity, things never seen in the typical American;s diet. If 







Document Number: 5090
State, has done just that. The following, posted with permission, is an up-to-date review of CCD research. It includes information from a variety of sources, from fact sheets to peer-reviewed journal articles. Introduction Honeybees ( apis mellifera ) are the primary pollinator available to agriculturalists in the United States. This makes them a critical part of US agriculture. Crops such as ;almonds (82% of the world;s supply and 100% dependent on interstate pollinators); apples; cherries; blueberries; broccoli; carrots; cranberries; cucurbits like cucumber, melons, squash, pumpkins, and gourds; (Stankus 2008) are heavily reliant on honey bees for pollination. Traveling hives provided by commercial apiary services pollinates many of these crops. A current epidemic, called Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD), affecting honeybee hives throughout the US threatens the apiarist industry. In the US during 2006-2007 29% of beekeepers reported some loss to CCD with some losing up to 75% of their stock (Winfree, Williams, Dushoff, et al). CCD is characterized as a mysterious loss of worker bees in the hive. There are no corpses to be found as the bees apparently wander far from the hive to die. The hive generally has sufficient food stores to maintain the population. The hives also generally 







Document Number: 4357
to shut their immune systems down. So how does this all work? A good system to use to describe how polydnavirus proteins work is the ankyrin/vankyrin pathways. It;s easy to visualize how they function and many other functions (Toll, Phenoloxidase silencing, etc) work in an indentical manner. Apoptosis is a vital immune defense where the cell begins producing enzymes called capsases which indiscriminately chew proteins up in the cell. If there;s a virus infecting the cell, the simplest way to save the whole organism is to destroy the infected cell. Destroy the infected cell, ensure no viral replication takes place, save the whole critter. Lots viruses have antiapoptotic proteins, and polydnaviruses use similar proteins to stop other immune processes which would kill the parasitoid larvae. In the simplest apoptosis pathway, we start with NFkB proteins floating around the cytoplasm of the cell bound to an IkB protein in a fashion that;s not unlike a zipper. What would be comparable to the ;teeth; of the zipper is a specific structure called an ankyrin domain which links the proteins together. There are two proteins linked together in the picture below. The one on the right is a protein which binds to a 







Document Number: 2447
biological questions up as well as addressing some of the intellectual property questions. If you have specific questions about Monsanto*, I hope you;ll bring them to Monsanto;s blog Beyond the Rows or ask some of the many Monsanto employees on Twitter such as @Mica_MON and @JPlovesCOTTON . The donation Monsanto;s May 13 Press Release Monsanto Company Donates Conventional Corn and Vegetable Seeds to Haitian Farmers to Help Address Food Security Needs is a good place to start to find out exactly what was donated and how it got there. Importantly, the donation was approved and by the Haitian Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry was involved in selecting seeds that would be ;appropriate for the growing conditions and farming practices in Haiti.; The exact way the seeds are being distributed ensures long term benefits from this one time donation: The initial seed shipment will be distributed to Haitian farmers by the WINNER project, a five-year program to increase farmer productivity funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). WINNER will provide the in-country expertise, technical services and other inputs, such as fertilizer, needed by farmers to manage the crops. ;Our goal is to reach 10,000 farmers this growing 







Document Number: 8235
45 days or more and are firmer than unmodified tomatoes, which I imagine makes for great tomato sandwiches! Before getting into the how , let;s talk about why this research is important. According to Enhancement of fruit shelf life by suppressing N-glycan processing enzymes in this week;s PNAS, post-harvest fruit and vegetable softening is a big problem, with losses accounting for almost 50% of all produce in developing countries. India, the country that funded the research, and the world;s 2nd largest fruit and vegetable producer, loses 35-40% of produce to softening. Squished tomato by limaoscarjuliet via Flickr. We all know that post-consumer food waste is a big problem, and we can alleviate this somewhat in our homes and by choosing restaurants that try to reduce waste. But there isn;t much we can do about pre-consumer waste ; from grain that rots in the silo due to fungus to tomatoes that rot in transit due to ripening. By reducing pre-consumer food waste, we can reduce the number of acres needed to produce the same amount of food. In India, preventing all fruit and vegetable softening would be like reducing the amount of land needed to grow fruits and vegetables by 35-40%! 







Document Number: 3525
on biology, have a read: Thanks for the optimistic article Can We Create New Life? (Feature Story, November 26). One has to be suspicious of any government policy being fast-tracked, especially one as revolutionary as genetic-engineering promotion. From a rational perspective, such a mysterious business requires more caution than normal, not less. To express the problem/risk as simply as possible requires an analogy: Think of GIGO garbage in, garbage out as used in information processing. The mal-ware, such as viruses, etc., which can damage computers, are created to appear to be normal information. In this way the computer is tricked and absorbs these programs into the computer software as if they are beneficial. Only later does the damage appear. But by then it is too late; your work is garbage, or lost altogether. Science often regards humanitys existence as depending on a delicate balance of forces in nature. These forces evolved this balance over a long time with perhaps trillions of iterations of trial and error in genetic combinations to get to us and our environment now. With this in mind, think of the information that we must absorb in order for our life programs to exist, to continue, to 







Document Number: 3634
are many urban myths going around. From our friend Stephen Lendman;s characterization of it as a ; GMO proliferation bill ,; to the claim that it will ban backyard gardens, many of the myths seem to follow a similar pattern. And almost no one who promotes these myths has even bothered to read the bills. Point of fact ; if you read the text of the bill , there is absolutely nothing in it about genetic engineering, so where do they get this idea? Nevertheless, myths such as these have traversed the intertubes and the lack of fact-checking combined with the sensationalism (and perceived plausibility?) of such a bill have put it on youtube , blogs, and some news sites. Linn Cohen-Cole, who reads half of what she writes about genetic engineering, understands half of what she she reads, and fact-checks half of what she understands, wrote a prolific piece for OpEd News Blogs called Monsanto;s Dream Bill, HR 875 . It was short, (not just short on facts) and spread very widely on the internet. The folks at the Monsanto Blog ended up writing a post explaining how their company doesn;t even have a position on the bill. Marion 







Document Number: 9212
whether or not they support our arguments, and regardless of the source. I heartily agree, but place emphasis on the need for facts based on considerable research, not speculation based on one poorly done study. I also appreciate their discussion of mutagenesis (I;m hoping to post on the International Atomic Energy Agency;s reccomendations soon). The impossibility of objectivity Too often, disagreements on any issue ; including scientific ones ; are a dialogue of the deaf.&nbsp; It is rare indeed for two people with radically opposed views to be prepared to listen or accept that there may be nuggets of truth in their opponent;s arguments. This does not just apply to activists with a firm belief in a particular cause, it is also characteristic of professional scientists who we might naively expect to behave better. The reason for this is simple. We all have inbuilt world views and biases, and they inevitably colour our judgement, however objective we strive to be. We talk about scientific facts, but (at the risk of sounding too post-modernist) many of these are based on a particular accepted interpretation of the available evidence. Scientists should always strive to be objective and base their conclusions on hard 







Document Number: 1233
other. How can a conventional farmer or researchers know how to make their farm more sustainable if they arent at least given an introduction to the subject? How can organic farmers apply new technologies that benefit their farming methods if they arent exposed to them? Obviously some methods are more transferable than others, but knowledge is always useful. For example, a friend of mine in ISUs sustainable ag program has told me about a recent experiment that tested the yield and pest incidence of two farm layouts: one large field planted with alternating years of soy and maize, or planting the field in strips of soy and maize (wide enough for farm equipment) then alternating the strips each year. The second layout had higher yields and decreased pests, presumably because most pests (insect, fungus, virus) attack either soy or maize, not both. The strips isolated the pests, meaning that less pesticides were needed. There was also more biodiversity in the field. This method would certainly be considered more sustainable, and it is also more profitable for the farmer (minus slightly longer time on the tractor). Extension agents told farmers about the experiments results, but none switched, preferring to stay with 







Document Number: 5015
to Monsanto; and Jeffrey Smith is all over youtube and google video too talking about his ;Seeds of Deception; book. This stuff thoroughly debunks you, dear. So whilst you waste your time on this, I;m buying 100% organic and so is everyone I know. I don;t think the commenter bothered to read the post before commenting. If she had, she might have realized that at least some of the anti-GE information out there is based on lies and exaggerations, which indicates that I am not ;thoroughly debunked;. Unfortunately, the writers of things like ;The World According to Monsanto; have an agenda, so are incapable of and/or unwilling to present information in a ;fair and balanced; manner. Instead, they twist the hard work of scientists to say things that the researchers never intended. They select studies that have been debunked, attribute unrelated problems to the ;evils of genetic engineering;, and so on. I suppose one might say that I have an agenda, but in my defense, I am simply advocating that people keep an open mind and seek to understand the science before rushing to conclusions or succumbing to propaganda. The best sources of information are never those on the fringes, 







Document Number: 4065
and the solutions that are needed. The silver lining, though, is that solutions are out there. If we focus our efforts, we can feed the hungry, protect the environment, respond to new and old challenges. The talk was videotaped, and the link will likely be posted by the ISU Lectures Program here . I purchased The Doubly Green Revolution , and had it signed! I;m looking forward to reading it and sharing my thoughts. You can read parts of the book on Google Books . There were so many topics that my notes from the talk don;t flow very well, so please bear with me. My comments are italicized , the rest is approximately what Sir Gordon had to say. I;ve added a few links, if you would like more information. Speculators triggered the food price crisis but speculators were triggered by 1) Australian droughts, 2) increased 1st generation biofuel production, and 3) increased fertilizer prices that were in turn a result of increased oil prices due to a decline in the dollar. Cost of both of the main ingredients of diammonium phosphate fertilizer has increased. Oil is needed to produce ammonia, and sulfur is in short supply. Additionally, long 







Document Number: 2695
more about themselves on their profiles, and for visitors to be able to see the people behind the words a little more clearly. Finally, while words can cross and get tense at times, we feel that it will foster more civil discussions if you can find out more about the person behind the comments you are responding to. Coding, testing, and implementation of this new system is now complete. Behold, I give you FrankNSpace !* Let me tell you what you can do with this. All registered users will appear on the Community page , which you can find in the page navigation above. Browse around, click on a profile and see who they are. On the left will be their personal details, as much or as little as they have decided to enter. On the right, you can see their most recent comments, posts (if any), and also their most recent forum posts. Some of these features were built into the plugins we are using, but others I coded de novo. I;m particularly proud of the Latest Forum Posts section that I wrote ; as far as I know no one else has done this to build on the 







Document Number: 6244
and what we were thinking about calling it . Well now the wait is over and all will be explained. I am pleased to introduce regulars and newcomers to the GENetic Engineering Risk Atlas, aka GENERA . This is intended to be an atlas of any and all peer-reviewed research related to the relative risks of plant genetic engineering in the context of plant breeding. David Tribe has maintained a list of 300 papers related to this topic on GMO Pundit, and earlier this year we decided that all this information needed to be more visible and accessible to everyone. After searching deep within the bowels of WordPress plugins and php code, I figured out how to use the WordPress platform to host and manage a separate set of custom pages that will store and organize details about each study in a way that people can easily browse and search to find what they want. Check it out , play with the links and look at the example entries and you;ll see why I hardly posted anything on the blog in June or July! The Atlas currently only tells you how many studies have been entered, but when we have 







Document Number: 2296
breeding, biotechnology, and nutrition. When I;m not in the lab or the field, I write about the science, ethics, politics, economics, etc of genetically modified plants at my blog Genetic Maize . I;m also a contributor at the blog Clashing Cultures where the interactions of science and religion are explored by people from different faiths and different scientific backgrounds. As of now, I;ll also contribute to Biofortified , writing about my favorite topic, plant genetics, and how this field affects the world around us. I;m very exciting to be working with some of my favorite bloggers on this project. I just hope I can find time to do it all! Genetic engineering is such a complex topic, one that people (both proponents and opponents, scientists and lay people) oversimplify far too often. It is rarely correct to make a blanket statement about ;all GMOs;. For example, I think most of us would agree that herbicide resistant crops created by a large corporation are fundamentally different from the flood tolerant rice created by a scientist with public funds and freely distributed to small farmers in developing countries. These two have different ethical, environmental, safety, social justice, and intellectual property issues, just 







Document Number: 1837
embrace scientific conclusions in other areas of science, but not in this area. Most Europeans dont consider themselves to be anti-science or particularly technophobic. In fact, Europes full embrace of the scientific consensus on another environmental issue, global warming, has enabled the continent to take the clear lead on climate change, with the most ambitious emissions targets, the first carbon trading market, and the greenest urban infrastructure plans on the planet. Europes scientific disconnect is more broadly true of eco-minded citizens worldwide: They laud the likes of James Hansen and Rajendra Pachauri but shrink in horror at the scientist who offers up a Bt corn plant (even though numerous studies indicate that Bt cropsby dramatically curbing pesticide useconserve biodiversity on farms and reduce chemical-related sickness among farmers). So why the disconnect? Why do many environmentalists trust science when it comes to climate change but not when it comes to genetic engineering? Is the fear really about the technology itself or is it a mistrust of big agribusiness? Contributing their views (in order) are Pam Ronald, Raj Patel, Nina Fedoroff, and Noel Kingsbury. Read the article , I;ll offer a few opinions about it after the jump. In my humble opinion, 







Document Number: 515
The malting barley used in this beer is of the Haruna Nijo variety, developed by Sapporo. This barley is the 4th generation produced from barley that spent 5 months aboard the International Space Station in the Zvezda Service Module . The hops from Furano, Hokkaido were also from seeds that spent time in space, although I wasn;t able to find out how long they spent up there. This all sounds pretty cool, a simple feel good pro-space research event. Sure, it;s cool, and I wouldn;t mind having a taste, but my first thought after reading Barley + Space = Space Beer! on Wired was: were there any mutations in the barley or hops that were caused by the exposure to gamma rays, etc while in space? Should the lucky few who get to try it be worried about unintended changes in the barley and hops from gamma rays and other mutagens in space? Multiple groups in China have been purposefully using the mutagenizing effects of space as a tool to develop new traits in crops including alfalfa and rice. Unfortunately, these researchers have been publishing in Chinese journals and other journals that I don;t have access to. A 2009 paper 







Document Number: 7234
with new heads of the FDA and USDA, there has been a strong call for better food safety oversight. One of the issues being discussed is combining the sometimes bizarrely split food regulatory duties of these two agencies into a single food and agriculture agency. Some want tighter regulations, others want to tighten down only on large food processing (or growing operations), but many just want to give the underfunded FDA the teeth it needs to do its job. Amid the clamor for food policy changes, the Madison-based Onion announced that the FDA Approves Salmonella ; which had me in stitches! Anyhow, it was only a matter of time before an anti-GE activist latched onto the food safety discussion to try to bring attention to genetically engineered foods. Monday, Jeffrey Smith put up a new column on his Huffington Post blog, asking Will Obama;s Food Safety Team Finally Regulate the Biggest Food Safety Hazard of Our Time? What, alfalfa sprouts ? Oh right, genetic engineering. Keep in mind the fact that there has not been a single confirmed case of anyone getting sick from a genetically engineered food. Even that guy that claimed to be allergic to Starlink corn and 







Document Number: 1007
worth taking a look at. A couple things to note about the video ; Cramer repeats the claim that Monsanto has raised its prices by 42% without finding out that it was based on a misunderstanding. The article it was based on was comparing an older variety of GE soybeans to a newer one with different breeding and different transgenic traits. But many took it to be a sign that the big bad gene giant was accelerating the prices of the same old seeds. You can read more about it at Looking Beyond the Headline at the Monsanto blog. To put it another way, I have Windows XP Home edition on my computer, but there is the newer Windows Vista to consider as well. If I was buying a new computer right now, the price of XP would start at $79 according to a google price search I just did. Vista would begin at $107 for the home edition. This is a 35% increase; does it mean that Microsoft is jacking up its Windows prices? If you ask Microsoft, Vista is a superior product (although opinions differ on that estimation). The newer varieties of seeds are supposed to be worth 







Document Number: 9441
engineered crops for many years, which never succeeded. His most recent effort was during the 2008 Presidential campaign. He organized efforts to seek campaign promises to label GE foods from the major candidates, asking people to send in written requests with a standard, printed form for them to sign and send to Winters. After a while, his site announced that all of the democratic candidates supported labeling. I learned about this seven months ago when Jeffrey Smith claimed that President Obama had promised to label GE foods. After some investigation, it turns out that he did not make that promise at all. You can read about the whole miscommunication here . During my investigation, I actually called up Craig Winters on the phone to talk to him about it. He seemed somewhat optimistic about convincing Obama;s presidency of his position, but he had not read about Obama;s statements in support of the technology, either. Winters was certainly very busy with other matters ; when I called him he had just gotten out of surgery the previous day. Winters not only started The Campaign to Label Genetically Engineered Foods, he also organized a nonprofit organization to accept donations to support anti-GE 







Document Number: 7453
column contained the following: ;STICKS TO American Crystal Sugar Company, based in Moorhead, Minn., for sourcing sugar from genetically engineered sugar beets designed to withstand the herbicide Roundup. Since sugar beets account for half of the nation;s granulated sugar production, GE ingredients will soon be present in just about every nonorganic, multiple-ingredient product people buy, says the Organic Consumers Association, which has called on American Crystal to reconsider its decision. Products containing GE ingredients are not required to be labeled as such.; I like food labels. I wish we had more, but if we are going to have one label, we;ve gotta have them all; I want to know every step in the growing process, from how much the workers are paid to what types of pesticides are used to how they rotate their crops each year. Information about the size and location of the grower would be nice too. On the small amounts of pre-prepared foods I buy, I;d especially like to see a ;Vegetarian; or ;Vegan; label so I don;t have to scour the ingredients list for random gelatin or guess if the rennet is GE or from a calf;s stomach lining. I;d like all of this information 







Document Number: 2425
with unsourced beliefs about how some food safety-related bills must be secret ways of proliferating GE crops. I was about to click off, but then I decided to check out page two. While skimming a section on ;GMOs in the G20 Agenda;, I found a proliferation of ellipses (;) in quotes. One in particular stuck out to me: The Washington-based Biotechnology Industry Organization said: ;We don;t need regulation of a technology that can feed, fuel and heal the world. The G20 leaders need to recognize that GM;.is the solution; to a pressing world need. Applying our lesson from before , I did a search for that quote to find out what was removed. It seemed dubious because I have never heard of anyone claiming that we do not need any regulation of GE crops. All searches traced to an article reproduced in multiple locations, such as on GMWatch.eu . Titled GM may be on the agenda at the G20 summit , The Times, by Mark Handerson/Henderson (depending on which reproduced article you look at). But there is no such article at The Times Online by their science editor, Mark Henderson. So I immediately emailed Stephen Lendman to find out what 







Document Number: 8710
any type of farming (or really to the production of anything), his main work is actually on animal agriculture. The return on investment of most types of animal agriculture is small compared to that of plant agriculture. For example, cattle require about 6 pounds of feed to produce 1 pound of muscle. All of the water, fertilizer, and pesticides required to grow 1 pound of plant material is thus multiplied by 6 to produce 1 pound of beef. Granted, it isn;t quite that simple, as parts of plants that aren;t used for human food can be fed to animals, but the point holds, even in organic systems. Demand for animal protein is increasing rapidly both in developed and developing countries. This means that the amount of land used to produce food for animals will also increase. Some lands that aren;t suitable for plant agriculture may be better put to use as pasture land, but those areas can not possibly supply per capita demand for meat ; more than 200 lbs per year per person in the US, according to the USDA (and that;s an average, theoretically factoring in the 3.2% of vegetarian and vegan Americans). This image from the University 







Document Number: 3912
and proponents of local or regional food systems. How can that be? Well, we dont think these ideas are conflicting at all. We think biotech** goes hand in hand with sustainability. We;d like to someday see vendors at farmer;s markets proudly displaying the traits they use in their produce to benefit the environment and consumers. There are many ways that biotech traits can help farmers reduce inputs and have more biodiversity on their farms, and ways to help food be more local. Two great examples are apples and tomatoes. Both of these are extremely popular fruits, are a healthy addition to any diet, and are eaten fresh as well as processed. Both can be grown in a variety of climates, but have a short growing season in most places, meaning that they are often shipped long distances before they get to consumers. There are a lot of specific traits that could be put into locally adapted varieties of apples and tomatoes to help make it easier to grow in a wider variety of places for a longer season, decrease pesticide use, and increase profit margins. A recent example of an apple trait that could help small local farmers is scab 







Document Number: 2148
and not-so-common logical fallacies conveniently listed in alphabetical order. Most of this post was written by Brian Dunning of the excellent podcast Skeptoid , who has generously given us permission to use his work here with some modification. The content can be found in its original form at Skeptoid , in the episodes A Magical Journey through the Land of Logical Fallacies ; Part 1 , A Magical Journey through the Land of Logical Fallacies ; Part 2 , and Some New Logical Fallacies . What is a fallacy and why are they used? First, what is a logical fallacy? The Wikipedia definition is as good as any: In logic and rhetoric , a fallacy is a misconception resulting from incorrect reasoning in argumentation . By accident or design, fallacies may exploit emotional triggers in the listener or interlocutor (e.g. appeal to emotion ), or take advantage of social relationships between people (e.g. argument from authority ). Fallacious arguments are often structured using rhetorical patterns that obscure the logical argument, making fallacies more difficult to diagnose. Also, the components of the fallacy may be spread out over separate arguments. A shorter definition for logical fallacy is provided by Brian: ;the 







Document Number: 9540
of GM wheat. In parallel to the global R&amp;D program to deliver valued GM wheat varieties including significant work in Australia the grains industry;s supply chain-wide assessment process is underway. A key step is the release at this week;s International Grains Forum in Perth, WA, of the document `GM wheat a seven to ten year program of consultation and collaboration;, prepared by Agrifood Awareness Australia Executive Director, Paula Fitzgerald. ;We have time on our side and are taking a long-term view as it is accepted fact that GM wheat is at least seven years away from commercialisation. The document outlines the series of actions that will occur in the years ahead and has been endorsed by a range a key Australian grains industry stakeholders.; Keith Perrett, GRDC Chairman says the case for GM wheat R&amp;D is compelling: It;s an accepted fact that the global human population is expected to reach 9 billion by 2050 and farmers will have to produce more food from finite land and water resources. Australian farmers will have a key role, as while we produce just 3% of the global wheat harvest each year, it accounts for near 15% of the global wheat trade. Importantly, wheat 







Document Number: 4713
never stop rice breeding, by the International Rice Research Institute. Variety IR8 is the original ; Miracle rice ; of the 1960s. This carefully-crafted variety has a stunted, semi-dwarf phenotype, which increases it;s harvest index (the proportion of grain biomass to total biomass), and allows it to resist lodging (falling over into the mud), even when heavily fertilized. As with wheat, the creation of dwarf varieties of rice played a major role in the enormous yield gains of the Green Revolution. But now it;s in trouble! IR8 originally produced yields of 9.5-10.5 tons per acre (twice the contemporary average), but recently it;s been down to 7. The question is: did the genetic makeup of IR8 drift over time or has something in our environment changed? Some researchers tested this by growing out 30 year old stored IR8 seed from the International Rice Gene Bank and comparing it to its own great-great-great-grandchildren. As far as they could tell, the modern accessions of IR8 that have been self-pollinated for 30 years were identical to the original stock of IR8, but they both produced low yields (15% less than other modern rice varieties). Somehow IR8 is no longer as well adapted to its 







Document Number: 4735
affect insects, and which spread in pollen. Consider this news on the topic: Public release date: 22-Dec-2010 Public Library of Science Movement and threat of RNA viruses widespread in pollinator community Penn State researchers have found that native pollinators, like wild bees and wasps, are infected by the same viral diseases as honey bees and that these viruses are transmitted via pollen. Their research published on December 22nd in PLoS ONE , an online open-access journal for the communication of all peer-reviewed scientific and medical research. This multi-institutional study provides new insights into viral infections in native pollinators, suggesting that viral diseases may be key factors impacting pollinator populations. According to Diana Cox-Foster, co-author and professor of entomology at Penn State, pollinator populations have declined for various reasons, including ribonucleic acid (RNA) viruses, which are emerging as a serious threat. ;RNA viruses are suspected as major contributors to Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD ), where honey bee colonies die with few or no bees left in the hives. Recent detection of these viral species in bumble bees and other native pollinators indicates a possible wider environmental spread of these viruses with potential broader impact,; explains Cox-Foster. The researchers studied viral distributions 







Document Number: 8488
discussed some ways that a conventional farmer might accidentally make life difficult for an organic farmer. Some people might not believe it, but gene flow aka ;contamination; can happen regardless of organic status. Organic plants could even screw up genetically engineered plants if pollen goes where it isn;t intended. One example is in plants that are genetically engineered to silence an unwanted protein. Peanuts or wheat could be (and have been ; peanuts , wheat ; though they are not yet on the market) engineered to eliminate allergenic proteins from those crops. Any genetic contamination from ;regular; peanuts or wheat could be very problematic because it would re-introduce those allergenic proteins. Someone prone to hyperbole might even call those genes ;malicious; because they would be turning an otherwise safe food into a dangerous food for those who are allergic. Mandarin orange on the tree. Image by Wikipedia. Another example, one that;s happening right now, is Mandarin oranges in California (thanks to Karl for bringing this up). No GMOs necessary ; the case here is regular old seedless Mandarin oranges. Farmers growing seedless Mandarins can command a higher price for their produce than if they had seeds. However, any stray citrus 







Document Number: 7652
on Biofortified. This is a group blog on plant genetics and genetic engineering, to try to sprinkle a little fertilizer on the discussion of the majority of the eukaryotic biomass on this planet ; plants! And we;ve got some plant genetics-based blog posts to talk about, but the theme for this edition is FRANKENPEOPLE! Yes, human genetics has been up in the news lately, and there is no shortage of blog posts discussing it. We begin with Josh Witten at the Rugbyologist, who discusses the uncanny genetics of the X-Men . Wrestling with mutation rates and variable mutant powers, Josh settles on the weirdness of the claim that the mutant gene is inherited from the father ; wait, if it is on the Y-Chromosome, how come there are female mutants? Perhaps the X-gene is not a mutant gene per se, but an epimutant that is the result of a change in paternal gene imprinting? Changes in gene expression are becoming more and more important these days, as our tools to study them are improving. Eliza Strickland at the 80beats Discover Blog talks about the long-lasting effects of child abuse on the genome. We must learn from the rats and lick 







Document Number: 4115
love of Mexican food with cilantro, tomatillos and hot peppers. Lettuces will include red romaine, green oak leaf, butterhead, red leaf and galactic. There will be spinach, chard, collards and black kale. For desserts, there will be a patch of berries. And herbs will include some more unusual varieties, like anise hyssop and Thai basil;. A White House carpenter, Charlie Brandts, who is a beekeeper, will tend two hives for honey. If we all dug up our lawns, planted 55 kinds of vegetables and tended it very carefully, the world would be a better place. That said, who has time? Certainly not the Obamas. The White House grounds crew and the kitchen staff will do most of the work. Still, I love the symbolism of it, and though it will be costly (vegetables harvested from showcase gardens such as the Obamas; are much more expensive than produce from an organic commercial farm), it will provide a great education tool for the fifth graders that will help tend the farm and for White House visitors. I hope one of her assistants plants some corn and teaches them about insects and disease. She can show them how to feel the tip of 







Document Number: 7439
his grandson is a minor star in the field of sport. The foodies there find molecular gastronomy really exciting. So he investigated further, and found this in the regular scientific literature: Food for tomorrow? How the scientific discipline of molecular gastronomy could change the way we eat viewpoint EMBO reports (2006) 7, 1062 ; 1066 Herv This Introduction For years, a new culinary trend called molecular cooking has been touted as the most exciting development in haute cuisine. It is now the newest fashion for chefs to offer their customers fake caviar made from sodium alginate and calcium, burning sherbets, spaghetti made from vegetables, and instant ice cream, fast-frozen using liquid nitrogen. In the most recent ranking of the world;s top 50 chefsby the British magazine Restaurantthe top three chefs were Ferran Adria from El Bulli in Rosas, Spain; Heston Blumenthal from The Fat Duck in Bray, UK; and Pierre Gagnaire from his restaurant in Paris, France (Restaurant, 2006). In 2005, Blumenthal was first and Adria came second. What is remarkable is that all three of these talented and popular chefs have been inspired by molecular gastronomy. What is molecular gastronomy? Is it only a temporary trend for people who 







Document Number: 6141
. Develop better seeds ; Monsanto will double yield in its three core crops of corn, soybeans and cotton by 2030, compared to a base year of 2000. The company will also establish a $10 million grant designed to accelerate breakthrough public sector research in wheat and rice yield. Conserve resources ; Monsanto will develop seeds that will reduce by one-third the amount of key resources required to grow crops by the year 2030. The company will also join with others to address habitat loss and water quality in agriculturally important areas. Help improve farmers; lives ; The company will help improve the lives of farmers, including an additional five million people in resource-poor farm families by 2020. The first two are good, but we expect improved seed from a seed company. I;m particularly interested in the third point. The press release tells us that ;Monsanto also is committed to sharing its expertise in a way that gives [resource poor farmers] access to modern agricultural technology.; For example, ; drought-tolerant maize for Africa that will be made available to farmers royalty-free.; Players include AATF , CIMMYT , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, and government 







Document Number: 1603
to&nbsp;environmentalism and to define sustainability as the key to achieving&nbsp;environmental goals. This requires embracing humans as a positive&nbsp;element in evolution rather than viewing us as some kind of mistake. I&nbsp;believe we should celebrate our existence and constantly put our minds&nbsp;toward making the world a better place for people and all &nbsp;the other&nbsp;species we share it with. A lot of environmentalists are stuck in the 1970s and continue to promote&nbsp;a strain of leftish romanticism about idyllic rural &nbsp;village life powered by&nbsp;windmills and solar panels. They idealize poverty, seeing it as a noble&nbsp;way of life, and oppose all &nbsp;large developments. James Cameron, the&nbsp;multimillionaire producer of the most lucrative movie in history, Avatar,&nbsp;paints his face and joins the disaffected to protest a hydroelectric dam in the Amazon. I believe: - We should be growing more trees and using more wood, not cutting&nbsp;fewer trees and using less wood as Greenpeace and its allies contend.&nbsp;Wood is the most important renewable material and energy resource. - Those countries that have reserves of potential hydroelectric energy&nbsp;should build the dams required to deliver that energy. There is nothing&nbsp;wrong with creating more lakes in this world. - Nuclear energy is essential for our future energy supply, especially if&nbsp;we wish 







Document Number: 1496
intellectual property (IP) and biotechnology for a bit. It;s a contentious subject for a lot of reasons, but some new ideas I;d never thought of before came up today. I don;t have a background in IP, so please feel free share your thoughts and ideas in the comments! Developing a biotech trait does require a lot of funds, similar to developing a new medicine. There;s testing and trials, safety and regulation ; all of it costs money. In order for a company to invest funds and people into a project, they have to have some reassurance that they will be able to make a profit after al that expense. Intellectual property protection, whether on a new widget, medicine, plant variety, or even movies and music, helps ensure that no other company or person will be able to collect profit that the inventor or creator deserves. Of course, patents and other forms of intellectual property protection (IPP) do have their limitations. Right now, IPP may be at once too strict and too lax. IPP is too strict in that patent holders must pursue violators of their patents, or risk loosing the patent. In other words, to follow the law, patent holders 







Document Number: 5249
highlight some comments of others. The first thing that occurs to me in this discussion about the hybrid seed is that there still is a lot of misinformation flying around about it. Beverly Bell, who ;sounded the alarm; about farmers supposedly planning to buy and then burn the donated hybrid seed , continues to make stuff up about the situation. While Monsanto never offered to donate GE seeds, Bell claims that the Haitian Agricultural Ministry rejected such an offer. Ronnie Cummins from the Organic Consumers Association assumes it to be true and expands upon the tall tale : ;Monsanto wanted initially to dump GMO seeds on Haiti, but even the corrupt Haitian government knew that this would spark a rebellion, so Monsanto cleverly decided to dump hybrid seeds instead.; However according to Monsanto, they never offered GE seeds , ever. Bell and Cummins both repeat the claim that hybrid seed cannot be saved, or is worthless to save. Also not true. The traits of saved hybrid seed will have a distribution of combinations of their parents; traits, but will still grow. I would like you to watch this short video which contains an interview with an ;Agronomist; named Mark who 







Document Number: 8733
I just hope he has the courage and skill to implement these ideas. The entire piece can be found below the cut. Hat tip to Parke Wilde at US Food Policy for finding it. Posted on Fri, May. 23, 2008 Defuse this crisis by Joe Biden Nobel laureate Norman Borlaug, the father of the Green Revolution, has said: ;Without food, man can live at most but a few weeks; without it, all other components of social justice are meaningless.; Today, millions of men, women and children around the world face, at best, hunger, at worst, starvation. By the World Bank;s calculations, the price of indispensable staples ; wheat, rice, maize ; has doubled in the past three years. From Haiti to Egypt to Bangladesh, riots have broken out as people demand the right to affordable food. For the billion people in the world who live on less than a dollar a day, higher food prices are the difference between a full stomach and hunger. For many, it is the difference between life and death. The United States is not immune to the effects of the food crisis. At home, the price of eggs has jumped 35 percent. A gallon of 







Document Number: 7806
are living in or on your skin or inside your body. Yet, several small, concerted groups work to express it as a distinct medical condition. Red and blue fibers, described as &quot;Morgellons fibers&quot;. MD was first described in academic literature in 2005, when an unidentified number of patients described itching, crawlingsensations, lesions, and the eruption of red and blue fibers and granules from their skin. Most had Lyme disease, and MD was thought to be significantly related to that (Savely &amp; Leitao, 2005). Recently, agrobacterium was indicted as the new culprit, when two self-identified MD patients with scleroderma were found to have increased amounts of cellulose-protein complex in their connective tissue (Savely &amp; Stricker, 2007, Harvey et al, 2009). A multi-systemic medical framework for MD with immunodeficiency problems has been described (Harvey et al, 2009). Lesions, attributed to Morgellons Disease. . The majority of physicians and researchers consider MD to be synonymous with DP (Murase, Woo &amp; Koo, 2006), with the difference that it is not believed to be parasites, but about the fibers and granules (Robles et al, 2008). In response, proponents of MD as amedical condition herald it as different from DP, citing a lack of pre-existing psychopathology 







Document Number: 4011
transfer of an inserted bacterial gene via pollen and seed dispersal in cotton plants more accurately than previously available methods. Shannon Heuberger, a graduate student at the University of Arizona;s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, and her co-workers will publish their findings in PLoS ONE on Nov. 30. The transfer of genes from genetically modified crop plants is a hotly debated issue. Many consumers are concerned about the possibility of genetic material from transgenic plants mixing with non-transgenic plants on nearby fields. Producers, on the other side, have a strong interest in knowing whether the varieties they are growing are free from unwanted genetic traits. Up until now, realistic models were lacking that could help growers and legislators assess and predict gene flow between genetically modified and non-genetically modified crops with satisfactory detail. This study is the first to analyze gene flow of a genetically modified trait at such a comprehensive level. The new approach is likely to improve assessment of the transfer of genes between plants other than cotton as well. ;The most important finding was that gene flow in an agricultural landscape is complex and influenced by many factors that previous field studies have not measured,; said 







Document Number: 8260
existed, they report in the August 13 issue of the journal Science. To the surprise of researchers, this RNA complex seems to play a critical role in the ability of the organism to infect human cells, a job carried out almost exclusively by proteins produced from DNA;s instruction manual. ;What these cells are doing is using ancient RNA technology to control modern gene expression,; said Ron Breaker, the Henry Ford II Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology at Yale, investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and senior author of the study. In old textbooks, RNA was viewed simply as the chemical intermediary between DNA;s instruction manual and the creation of proteins. However, Breaker;s lab has identified the existence and function of riboswitches, or RNA structures that have the ability to detect molecules and control gene expression ; an ability once believed to be possessed solely by proteins. Breaker and many other scientists now believe the first forms of life depended upon such RNA machines, which would have had to find ways to interact and carry out many of the functions proteins do today. The new paper describes the complex interactions of two small RNA molecules and two larger 







Document Number: 5970
by Ray Schnell, USDA-ARS) EurekAlert 16 Sep 2010 Analysis of the chocolate genome could lead to improved crops and products The sequencing and analysis of the genome for the Criollo variety of the cacao tree, generally considered to produce the world;s finest chocolate, was completed by an international team led by Claire Lanaud of CIRAD, France, with Mark Guiltinan of Penn State, and included scientists from 18 other institutions. ;The large amount of information generated by this project dramatically changes the status of this tropical plant and its potential interest for the scientific community,; said Guiltinan, professor of plant molecular biology, Penn State. The researchers not only sequenced the genome of this ancient plant, but assembled 76 percent of the genome linking 82 percent of those genes to the 10 cacao chromosomes. This analysis identified a variety of gene families that may have future impact on improving cacao trees and fruit either by enhancing their attributes or providing protection from fungal diseases and insects that effect cacao trees. ;Relics of the ancestral Criollo first cultivated by Olmec or Maya people can still be encountered in old Mesoamerican plantations or in forests where the Maya live,; said Siela Maximova, associate professor 







Document Number: 4200
as a result of its ability to inject genes it carries inside its own cells into plant cells. Ability to mate with other organisms is well established and widely studied among common bacteria such as E. coli , and they can be very promiscuous, in that a wide range of target organisms including very unrelated organisms such as yeasts can accept genes from them in the mating process. But to do an injection of DNA into a target organism Agrobacterium needs to be stimulated by chemical signals from plant material. This scientific paper shows that chemical signals on plant tissues are available to encourage mating by these same Agrobacterium bacteria with fungi that grow on plant surfaces. The work documents that genes can naturally pass between bacteria and fungi&nbsp; on the surfaces of plants.&nbsp; It;s one of the many demonstrations that natural gene movement occurs between widely separated organisms on evolutionary trees, as fungi and bacteria, which are very distant relatives on the evolutionary tree of life. &nbsp; Investigating Agrobacterium -Mediated Transformation of Verticillium albo-atrum on Plant Surfaces Abstract Background Agrobacterium tumefaciens has long been known to transform plant tissue in nature as part of its infection process. This natural 







Document Number: 8448
different biological kingdoms that are found in the natural world. Click on the natural GMOs tag to find these examples. This new paper by Pernilla Vallenback and co-authors for which there is open Internet access, provides a thorough characterisation of an example where a gene segment has moved between two different types of grass species that are reproductively isolated in nature. Preliminary information about this event has appeared in the literature before this time, but the new paper provides a thorough characterisation of the nature of the genes near the natural transgene. The authors do not have any clear idea of how the event occurred but the evidence in the paper shows that it does occur, and as a mobile gene related gene segment appears near the natural &nbsp;transgene, quite likely it was involved in some way in the movement of DNA between two different species. The authors talk about a vector for the DNA movement, which might be a virus, or might be some other&nbsp;agency&nbsp;such as a parasitic insect that injects plant cells with material as part of its life cycle. Because its review section at the start contains an excellent introduction to the scientific literature on the topic 







Document Number: 4498
show that bacteria evolve new abilities, such as antibiotic resistance, predominantly by acquiring genes from other bacteria. The researchers new insights into the evolution of bacteria partly contradict the widely accepted theory that new biological functions in bacteria and other microbes arise primarily through the process of gene duplication within the same organism. Their just released study will be published in the open-access journal PLoS Genetics on January 27. Microbes live and thrive in incredibly diverse and harsh conditions, from boiling or freezing water to the human immune system. This remarkable adaptability results from their ability to quickly modify their repertoire of protein functions by gaining, losing and modifying their genes. Microbes were known to modify genes to expand their repertoire of protein families in two ways: via duplication processes followed by slow functional specialization, in the same way as large multicellular organisms like us, and by acquiring different genes directly from other microbes. The latter process, known as horizontal gene transfer, is notoriously conspicuous in the spread of antibiotic resistance, turning some bacteria into drug-resistant ;superbugs; such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), a serious public health concern. The researchers examined a large database of microbial genomes, including some of 







Document Number: 8626
will end up in the progeny of non-transgenic plants, weedy relatives of the crop, or wild relatives that grow nearby due to pollen flow. Transgenes can also be moved from place to place by accidental or purposeful movement of seeds. How much transgene flow is actually happening is a subject of some controversy, but what about gene flow between non-transgenic plants? There is potential for problems whenever plants that aren;t supposed to cross stray from their intended mates. Some things to think about include how gene flow happens at the field and genetic levels and what characteristics of the genes themselves can affect permanence of contaminating genes once they get into a variety they shouldn;t be in. Gene flow with transgenes can help us to think about gene flow of ;regular; genes In the 2004 paper Gene Flow from Cultivated Rice (Oryza sativa) to its Weedy and Wild Relatives , Li Juan Chen showed that a marker gene ;flowed; in their test field from transgenic cultivated rice to weedy rice at rates between 0.011 and 0.046 % and to wild rice at rates between 1.21 and 2.19 %. The marker gene Chen used is called bar , which is easy 







Document Number: 4263
if you ask me. After a short drive from Madison to St. Charles, IL, the one-day conference started just after lunch. Some of the talks on the first afternoon were on the effect of pieces of the wild teosinte genome in maize varieties, aka introgression lines, and selecting for dark orange color in the kernels, for example. Reid, a fellow UW-Madison grad student, gave a great presentation on the performance of some new sweet corn lines compared to popular varieties. On the second day, the first order of business was a round-table discussion from 8-11:30, where breeders and grad students could get up in the middle of the group and draw their breeding strategies on an easel. During a break, I snapped this photo of some of the presenters and other innocent bystanders, and as a result, when I went in front of the group to talk about my plant breeding videos, my only question was about the blog! As you can see, Frank here was telling people about it. Note Wenwei Xu on the left, and Seth Murray and Marilyn Warburton in the 3rd and 4th positions. Marilyn studies resistance to fungi that produce Aflatoxin, a toxin that stunts 







Document Number: 535
overtaxed natural populations. Regulation has been successful in some areas ( Alaskan salmon ), yet failed miserably in others ( Mediterranean tuna ). The big question is: how can humans continue to enjoy eating fish but avoid the extinction of popular species? Aquaculture is one solution. Farming has been especially successful with vegetarian fish like tilapia and catfish, because they can be fed grain based meal. It hasn;t been as sucessful with carnivorous fish because they require a high protein meal that is typically made from smaller fish like anchovies. Overfishing of the smaller fish has negative effects on wild ecosystems. Researchers at Mississippi State may have found the solution. Feed made from insects contains high quality protein and is cheap to produce. Excerpts from the press release are below the cut. Aquaculture, the commercial production of seafood in managed ponds or tanks, currently supplies about 46 percent of all seafood consumed in the world today. The United Nations; Food and Agriculture Organization predicts that commercially grown supplies will rise to 75 percent of consumption in the next 20 years. ;The supply of wild-caught fish has really been flat since the late 1980s, and those stocks have little chance of 







Document Number: 5064
with lower applications of costly fertilizer. Nitrogen Use Efficiency has got him, well, rationally optimistic about the environmental benefits of some GE traits. Imagine you could wave a magic wand and boost the yield of the worlds crops, cut their cost, use fewer-fossil fuels to grow them and reduce the pollution that results from farming. Imagine, too, that you could both eliminate some hunger and return some land to rain forest. This is the scale of the prize that many in the biotechnology industry now suddenly believe is within their grasp in 2010 and the years that follow. They are in effect hoping to boost the miles-per-gallon of agriculture, except that the fuel in question is nitrogen. In a play on those who call GE crops an ;unmitigated environmental disaster,; he instead calls them an unmitigated environmental miracle. While I wouldn;t go so far as to call them a miracle, it is quite astonishing what has been achieved in the literature in so short a time, and what traits we are likely to see commercialized in the next decade. The Union of Concerned Scientists, however, just released another report, this time questioning the usefulness of genetic engineering to make crops 







Document Number: 9947
cells, control the plant;s respiration: how much carbon dioxide gets in and how much oxygen and water vapor gets out. The control isn;t very good, though. Most plants just have their stomata open all day every day so they can pull in lots of CO2 to use during photosynthesis to make sugar. And that means a lot of water, painstakingly pulled up from the soil, through the roots, gets lost. If stomata could be more selective, only opening when more CO2 was needed for photosynthesis, then water could be conserved. An enzyme called carbonic anhydrase raises the levels of CO2 in chloroplasts so the plant can make plenty of sugar. It does this by converting CO2 from its storage form carbonic acid back to it;s useable form: CO2 + H2O H2CO3. Carbonic anhydrase also appears in the guard cells, where it controls the opening and closing of stomata. Julian Schroeder , Professor of Biology at UC, San Diego hypothesized that more carbonic anhydrase in the guard cells would place tighter control over opening and closing. His group tried shutting off the carbonic anhydrase gene in the stomata of a little plant called Arabidopsis . Those plants were unable to respond 







Document Number: 8728
ways to involve stakeholders such that there are safety controls. Its not a perfect system, but it seems to work. The latest example regards sugar beets in Oregon. Map from Guide to Oregon. There is a large valley on the West side of Oregon named Willamette Valley (shown in green on the map). The valley is heavily agricultural in between all of those highways, and is where a lot of sugar beets, table beets, and chard are grown for seed (according to Organic Seed Alliance). Because these seeds are used all over the country, its important to have genotypic integrity. This seed is even more sensitive because lot of it is organic. Farmers who buy the seed and eventually sell the beet roots as organic need to have them GM free, especially with the advent of new voluntary testing and labeling of products by the Non-GMO Project (which I discuss in Labeling GMOs ). According to the Organic Seed Alliances post Judge Whites Decision: USDA-APHIS Violated National Environmental Policy Act in deregulation of RR sugarbeets and Judge overturns approval of Roundup Ready beets from the Associated Press, USDA/APHIS failed to consider transgene flow to seed production fields in Willamette Valley 







Document Number: 7109
. We watched a live webcast, sent in questions, and followed the conversation in twitter with the hashtag #agcast. It was a pretty fun two hours because not only were people discussing the webcast real-time, the discussion was leaking into the webcast itself in the form of comments and questions being read from it. Very cool and 2.0-ish. Alex Rinkus from Croplife has provided a link to the entire webcast on Vimeo, feel free to watch the whole thing. I will make a few several comments after the fold. The whole affair probably took a lot of planning, and the integration of twitter comments into the video webpage was impressive. This is the first time I have seen that kind of detail. It is especially good because even people who don;t twitter can see the discussion unfolding. The display of twitter comments behind the speakers was also a nice touch, however it was difficult to read them in the video ; it was probably more for the physical audience at the event. But seeing as how Anastasia had two of her ;tweets; read aloud on the webcast, making both Frank and me jealous, it The format got me thinking about 







Document Number: 3846
talking, of course, about the ability to syndicate feeds from contributor;s blogs ; but not only that ; to have it automatic, hands-free, and self-formatting for this blog. Like many a layperson might be able to imagine a genetically engineered plant that they would not know how to transform, setting up this capability was beyond the coding abilities of the geneticists editing this blog. I for one, have learned about html and php through fiddling as a geneticist might make a mutation and study its downstream effects. Although the metaphor may seem backwards, it makes perfect sense to me to see lines of computer code as if they were analogous to genes and not the other way around. But like many genes in a genome database, there;s no easy annotation for special features for blog plugins that don;t yet exist. Rather than wait for natural variation to give something for bloggers to select for, we had to call on the help of an intelligent designer to produce it ex nihilo. Charles Johnson created the highly versatile plugin, FeedWordpress , which allows you to subscribe to feeds on other blogs to import their posts into your own. It was perfect for 







Document Number: 7421
to broad discussions that affect everything we do in communicating risk. The take home message, for me, is that there are people in dire need that deserve better, and improved nutrition is the key to solving many problems. As Mark Whalqvist said in a symposium about ;Weaving biofortification into the global development agenda;, good nutrition is not really about rights. It;s about equity, fairness. A child growing up in rural India or Uganda deserves a chance for healthy brain and body development just as much as a child growing up in Washington, DC or Ames, Iowa. It;s only fair. Just defining the problems can be difficult. On a global scale, we have one list that has been agreed upon by representatives from counties all around the world. The Millennium Development Goals , developed by the UN and adopted in 2000, are a good list of the things that those of us in the developed world need to work on both in our own countries and in the developing world (bonus: cute logos). The list isn;t so good for accountability and determination of success because it is based on many factors that aren;t easy to measure but it;s still a useful 







Document Number: 8339
held this high office.Never before has the internet played such a huge role in the election, transition, and future administration of a president. And at least in my memory, I haven;t seen a president so prepared to hit the ground running in a crisis. The last two times a president decided to do something about a crisis, he first had to cancel his vacation! There are a lot of things on his list, and executive orders are flying out of the Oval Office. Some believe that among his list of things to do is to require mandatory labeling of genetically engineered (GE) foods, but as I will demonstrate below, it is not on his list. First, a bit of background. Obama has made his policy priorities public, and has made it a point to include people who both agree and disagree with him a part of his administration. Further channeling the memory of Abraham Lincoln, he even rode from Illinois to Washington D.C. on a train. The first 100 days are going to be a very exciting time in the realm of presidential politics. President Obama has already vetted and selected several people to form his cabinet, which were announced 







Document Number: 4501
of a 90-day rat study with eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA)-rich oil produced from GM Yarrowia lipolytica yeast produced no adverse effects at doses up to 976 mg EPA per kilogram of body weight per day, according to findings published in Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology. Exposure to EPA oil produced no test substance-related effects on body weight or nutritional parameters, neurobehavioral parameters, clinical or ophthalmological observations, hematology or urinalysis parameters or microscopic pathology at any tested dose, wrote researchers from DuPont, led by Susan MacKenzie. The safety profile of EPA oil was comparable to that of GRAS fish oil. These results support the use of EPA oil produced from yeast as a safe source for use in dietary supplements, they added. More at &nbsp; Nutra ingredients Scientific report Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2010 Sep 6. [Epub ahead of print] Safety assessment of EPA-rich oil produced from yeast: Results of a 90-day subchronic toxicity study. Mackenzie SA, Belcher LA, Sykes GP, Frame SR, Mukerji P, Gillies PJ. DuPont Haskell Global Centers for Health and Environmental Sciences, E. I. duPont de Nemours &amp; Company, 1090 Elkton Road, Newark, DE 19711-3507, USA. Abstract The safety of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) oil produced from genetically modified Yarrowia lipolytica 







Document Number: 1812
44 recent omic comparisons between GE and non-GE crop lines. Those profiling techniques (transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics) have been increasingly applied to the analysis of genetically engineered (GE) crop plants with regard to their food safety and nutritional equivalence. None of the published omic assessments has raised safety concerns about GE cultivars. The results show that genetic engineering has less impact on the expression of RNA or on protein and metabolite levels than conventional breeding or environmental conditions (e.g. drought). Differences between GE crops and their comparators should be analyzed in a wider context of natural variation. The most pronounced differences were consistently found between the various conventional varieties, a trend linked to the crop diversity maintained or created by plant breeders. This should be put in perspective taking into account that conventional breeding is generally regarded as safe, despite the fact that the nature of the changes in new conventional cultivars are usually unknown. Metabolomics is becoming the prevalent approach but does not yet provide added value for food safety assessment compared to the currently used analytical methods. More basic research is required before non-targeted large-scale methodologies can be internationally certified and accepted. The study concludes (emphasis added): Today, 







Document Number: 8027
in Southeast Asia. Asia has its own problems, including floods and food-unfriendly government policies, as I described in ; Rising rice prices not caused by biofuels ;. However, Asians have been increasingly dependent on Australian rice, instead planting cash crops for export in their own fields. Droughts and economics in Australia have resulted in decreased rice harvests just when the food was needed most. Worse, limited water rights mean that farmers in Australia have to choose what crop to plant. The price of wine grapes is higher than that of rice, so the farmers did what they had to do. Sadly, as I;d gleaned from other reports, the shortages doesn;t seem to be anyone;s ;fault;, with no one thing to blame. Instead, it;s a mash of mostly unrelated events and conditions that have come together in an unforeseen way to create a terrible result. Lindsay Renwick, the mayor of this dusty southern Australian town, remembers the constant whir of the rice mill. It was our little heartbeat out there, tickety-tick-tickety, he said, imitating the giant fans that dried the rice, and now it has stopped. The Deniliquin mill, the largest rice mill in the Southern Hemisphere, once processed enough grain 







Document Number: 3080
a poll. They called a thousand random people over the phone and asked them just two questions: 1. Do you buy organic food, such as produce, meat or dairy products? (Yes/No) 2. Please rate your concern with organic food crops that are contaminated by genetic engineering. Are you Extremely concerned Very concerned Somewhat concerned Not concerned at all Sounds like a pretty simple exercise. However, I question the use of the term ;contaminated.; This is a loaded term, and assumes one of the things that they want people to believe ; that organic agriculture should not include genetic engineering. This introduces a bias into the poll. For instance, if you asked these two similar and benign questions, you would get two different results: A. Please rate your concern with organic food crops that cross-pollinate with hybrid crops. B. Please rate your concern with organic food crops that are contaminated by pollen from hybrid crops. Of course, hybrids are allowed in organic agriculture, but I;ll bet my backyard garden harvest for this entire year that if you ask these two questions the word ;contaminated; will have a measurable effect and cause people to answer that they are more concerned than they 







Document Number: 8543
). Thus one of the global challenges for the next century is the need to develop high-yielding varieties that require minimal inputs, so that impacts on biodiversity can be minimized. An alternative to the ;high-input; approach is to expand the number of organic farms. Because organic farmers do not use synthetic pesticides, their farms support higher levels of biodiversity than conventional farms. Some organic farms can yield as much, for some crops, as conventional agriculture ( Reganold et al. 2001 ; Maeder et al. , 2002 ), although in some cases the yields of organic cropping systems is considerably lower than that of conventional or integrated cropping systems ( Bruulsema TW et al. 2003; Maeder et al., 2002 ) In cases of low yield, organic practices would require more land be farmed to maintain and increase output levels, thus potentially leading to reduced overall biodiversity. What is the net effect on wildlife when the land being converted to wildlife-friendly farming has a lower yield, and so more land, somewhere, must be farmed to provide the same harvest? A new study this week published in Ecology Letters seeks to answer this question. The research indicates that when the organic yield per 







Document Number: 2422
the Center for Food Safety;s effort to halt Monsanto;s spring planting of GMO alfalfa crops. Nutiva is concerned about the impact that genetically modified organisms are having on our natural world;; Oxnard, CA (Vocus/PRWEB) February 17, 2011 Last month the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the deregulation of Monsantos genetically engineered, Roundup-Ready alfalfa. According to the New York Times, this would authorize the unrestricted commercial cultivation of genetically modified alfalfa, a decision profoundly disappointing to the organic community and one that promises an epic battle to determine the future of organic foods in North America. The Center for Food Safety (CFS), is pursuing all legal remedies to oppose this decision. CFS, a nonprofit organization, representing 180,000 members across the nation, is focused on curbing the use of harmful food production technologies and promoting organic agriculture. CFS Executive Director Andrew Kimbrell said, CFSs legal team is the organic communitys last line of defense against this GMO threat to farmers and consumer choice. Nutiva has pledged $25,000 to CFS to support its legal work. With Organic Foods Endangered, Who Will Take a Stand Against Monsanto? Nutiva founder and CEO, John W. Roulac, comments on the deregulation, Nutiva is concerned about 







Document Number: 4919
berries while leaving the soil healthier and more genetically diverse. ;Our findings have global implications and advance what we know about the sustainability benefits of organic farming systems,; said John Reganold, Washington State University Regents professor of soil science and lead author of a paper published in the peer-reviewed online journal, PLoS ONE. ;We also show you can have high quality, healthy produce without resorting to an arsenal of pesticides.; The study is among the most comprehensive of its kind, analyzing 31 chemical and biological soil properties, soil DNA, and the taste, nutrition and quality of three strawberry varieties on more than two dozen commercial fields ; 13 conventional and 13 organic. All the farms in the current study were in California, home to 90 percent of the nation;s strawberries and the center of an ongoing debate about the use of soil fumigants. Conventional farms in the study used the ozone-depleting methyl bromide, which is slated to be replaced by the highly toxic methyl iodide over the protests of health advocates and more than 50 Nobel laureates and members of the National Academy of Sciences. In July, California Sen. Dianne Feinstein asked the EPA to reconsider its approval of methyl 







Document Number: 6930
other attributes of a food, downplay the number of calories, and not pay as much attention to the nutrition facts panel. A couple recent studies by Schuldt and Schwarz (1) show this happens with the word organic on the label as well, with food and exercise. Indirect evidence has suggested this for awhile (associations of organic withhealthy among many other inferences). Image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons. In the first study , they showed 114 college students, split into 2 groups a Nutrition Facts panel for conventional Oreos or Oreos that were made with organic flour and sugar that had the same number of calories. They were asked to rate on a scale if they thought the cookies they were shown had in comparison to other brands more or fewer calories and if they should be eaten more or less compared to other brands. They also completed a New Ecological Paradigm scale which measured how pro-environmentalist they are. On average the organic oreos were rated as having fewer calories compared to other brands, and were rated more appropriate to eat more often. They also found that a higher level of pro-environmentalism more strongly biased the calorie content perceptions of the organically 







Document Number: 7739
being no approval at all, the second, unrestricted approval, and the third, approval with certain geographic restrictions. (For some discussion on this, see Anastasia;s post on alfalfa and mine on our joint comment to the USDA .) So already, the political process with GE crop deregulation is getting more interesting, but one fascinating aspect of all this is the new and surprising level of infighting amongst opponents of genetic engineering, particularly in the Organic agriculture sector. All it took was proposing something between a blanket Yes or No ; something that recognizes that all farmers have a reasonable right to grow crops as they see fit ; and that the goal should be coexistence amongst all segments of agriculture. As soon as the topic of coexistence came up. Ronnie Cummins of the Organic Consumers Association fired off a shot, with USDA Recommends ;Coexistence; with Monsanto? We say Hell No! The Agriculture Department is dutifully drafting a comprehensive ;coexistence policy; that supposedly will diffuse tensions between conventional (chemical but non-GMO), biotech, and organic farmers. Earlier this week industry and Administration officials met in Washington, D.C. to talk about coexistence. Even though the Organic Consumers Association tried to get into the meeting, 







Document Number: 2146
environment. Ive already covered analyses suggesting that there isnt enough evidence that suggests organic foods are better for your health, so is the higher cost justified by a lessened environmental impact? Bahlai et al. published a paper suggesting that the dichotomous classification of organic and conventional is not optimal for sustainability, we must evaluate pesticides individually. According to the authors, sustainable agriculture programs put an emphasis on the development of organic and natural insecticides to control pests, with the assumption that they are safer on the environment compared to synthetics. Public opinion also leans toward this assumption as well. The various practices (organic, conventional, or integrated) have been studied producing different results on sustainability. Differences in methodologies, practice classifications, and a number of other variables make it difficult to draw conclusions at this point. Importantly, they note: each system is characterized by a suite of practices which are ideologically, rather than empirically defined, these systems are not mutually exclusive from each other , and vary from region to region depending on regulations. Because of these variations, generalizations about the overall sustainability of one system over another are never universal. Organic farms do indeed (generally) use pesticides, they just arent synthetically 







Document Number: 7588
agricultural situations. My role here on Biofortified is to write about the basic biology of pests, but I will be discussing management from time to time. Ellipsidion australe: Cockroach? Yes Pest? No. To say that insects are pests would be far too simplistic because of their sheer diversity. The two families of parasitoid wasps I;ve been discussing, the Braconids and Ichneumonids consist of about 180,000 species together. If you want something to compare this to, there are roughly 10,000 mammalian species. There are a lot of insects around us, and they all have different ecological roles. While some insects feed on crops, others feed exclusively on other insects which makes them the enemies of our enemies and thus;our friends. Even in a monoculture system, there are interactions between pest animals, their environment and people. Understanding these interactions is key to understanding things like why we need pesticides or why your town is inundated with ladybugs every year. So;what, exactly constitutes a pest? The most simple definition of a pest is an organism which pisses us off. That;s really it; the term is completely anthropocentric. Pests are creatures which interfere with our activities in any way, shape or form. In agricultural 







Document Number: 745
divided into categories as well as how those categories overlap. Identifying pests and how they cause damage is only one part of the puzzle. There;s another part of the puzzle that comes along when you start treating the crops and when talking about pesticides, it;s one that;s the most frequently overlooked. Economics need to be taken into account when treating crops because, believe it or not, going easy on the pesticides can actually be beneficial to farmers. The latest paradigm for pest control in agricultural situations is called ;integrated pest management;, which I;ll refer to as IPM from here on out. It takes an economical approach to pest management by sampling pests, looking at how they damage crops and what numbers of a pest are sufficient to damage a set of crops. This is much better than randomly spraying pesticides at anything which looks like it might be eating your crops because it takes into account how much money you;ll spend and save on treatments. It also encourages a conservative use of pesticides which not only lessens a pest;s exposure to pesticides and selection pressure for pesticide resistance but also lowers the amount of pesticides sprayed in the field. Although 







Document Number: 1281
corn, soybeans, wheat, seed corn, and popcorn over many of those years it has truly changed what we are able to do and what we will be able to do in the future. Equipment technology has created a way for us to be able to be better stewards of our ground and resources. Biotechnology has allowed us to push the food, feed, and fuel production to levels that only a few short years ago, many people would not have thought possible. Plus, we are utilizing fertilizer at a better rate. We are reducing our need for irrigation, in irrigated crop production. We are using fewer and fewer pesticides, which not only allows for a healthier product but also for cleaner natural resources like streams and drinking water. For the farmer, this new wave of biotechnology, has allowed him to plant sooner and get over more acres faster. It also allows for a crop that can remain in the field in good condition longer. It is also allowing for new ;green; technologies to come along with the feedstocks from the field being used for future cellulosic ethanol production and for helping coal fired electric plants to create a cleaner energy as 







Document Number: 3657
the cyanobacterium was not consumed. Instead, it stayed there, establishing a new home inside the confines of its voracious captor. We now know this happy accident was a momentous first step towards a greener, more botanical planet, because our little cyanobacterium was the photosynthetic ancestor to that most remarkable organelle: the chloroplast . (By law, any discussion of chloroplast origins compels me to mention the similar origin of the mitochondrion. With those requirements now met, let us now continue.) The focus of this post will be more technological than biological, but there are a few basic facts we need to get out of the way before we can proceed. Briefly: Chloroplasts, along with leucoplasts, proteinoplasts, elaioplasts, amyloplasts, statoliths, and chromoplasts, belong to a class of organelles known as plastids . The names of these other plastids aren;t important so long as you realize the chloroplast isn;t the only game in town. That;s why the title of this post is ;Plastid Engineering; and not ;Chloroplast Engineering.; Plastids replicate separately from their host cell, and in any given cell there can be 100 to 1,000 plastids. Moreover, plastids contain multiple copies of their genome ( plastome ) to the point where a 







Document Number: 4495
Poster Competition For Graduate and Undergraduate Students . I was very excited about the competition this year, because my research is very important to world food issues. The poster is: Characterizing seed storage proteins in teosinte and tripsicum , with the objective statement ;To find unique seed storage proteins in relatives of maize that might be used to improve maize nutritional qualities.; I like to imagine that Norm Borlaug would approve. I purposefully chose a table at the opening of the room, just as I did last year, so I would be easily noticeable. I even brought samples of the seed so people could see for themselves how different teosinte and tripsicum are from maize, because everyone likes hand-on science. I thought I did all the right things to make a good showing, even if my poster wasn;t the best. Unfortunately, the judging was less than smooth. Each poster was assigned two judges from a pool of about six judges. My first judge, who I;ve interacted with before, read my poster and joked with me for a bit. I was concerned that he didn;t ask many specific questions about my research. His last question was ;how would this affect food 







Document Number: 1745
it;s a little difficult to work with, but with perseverance and the right software ( JMP is the best!*), I was able to re-do the EWG analysis but with the newest available data. Below you can find my results with a through explanation of what I;ve done and why. The results are posted without all the commentary at Produce Pesticide Rankings which has all of the results and Pesticide Produce Rankings Tables which has comparisons of my results to the EWG results. You can download the original USDA data yourself or check out the Latest PDP Findings of Interest to Consumers . See Produce Pesticide Rankings Part 2 for the real scoop on which produce is the most and least safe. Concentration and LOD My first step was to compare the detected Concentration to the Limit of Detection . The LOD seems to have been ignored by EWG. The LOD is the smallest concentration of the chemical you are looking for that will give a positive signal with the method used. Every method/chemical combination has a different LOD that can be found by comparing a blank (no chemical) to smaller and smaller concentrations of the chemical. If the detected concentration 







Document Number: 5404
but human error plays a bigger role in GM contamination Careless handling of seeds may be the key reason for the unintended spread of genetically modified (GM) crops, a study has found. The discovery challenges the widespread belief that the main source of GM contamination is the transfer of pollen by bees from GM crops to non-GM counterparts in neighbouring fields. Human error during seed production and handling is the more likely culprit, say the researchers. Stands of non-GM crop plants are currently planted near or within fields of modified crops to provide refuges for pests. This technique helps prevent the pests developing resistance to the pesticides used on GM crops. But human error could undermine this widely used strategy, the paper says. Shannon Heuberger, an entomologist at the University of Arizona, United States, and her colleagues measured the gene flow the movement of genes between different populations that occurs when a plant from one population fertilises a plant from the other in Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) cotton, the widely planted GM crop, in 15 fields in Arizona. They found that gene flow via the transmission of pollen by bees was rare. Fewer than one per cent of seeds produced by 







Document Number: 7255
the changes really mean? Is the US government really part of a Monsanto-led conspiracy to force the impoverished into a cycle of dependency on patented seed and pesticides? The Pesticide Action Network of North America sums up their view of the situation in their newsletter : After its introduction in the Senate a year ago, Bill Gates and Bill Clinton have been quietly pressing for this piece of legislation that aims to fight global hunger with one hand while orchestrating a giant taxpayer subsidy to pesticide and ag biotech companies with the other. The bill, also known as the Lugar-Casey Act ; for Senators Richard Lugar (R-IN) and Robert Casey (D-PA) ; would refocus aid programs on agricultural development, with a caveat: public funding of genetically engineered (GE) seeds is what this bill means by agricultural development. I don;t know if PANNA actually read the Act, because there;s a lot in there about agricultural development that has nothing to do with genetic engineering, as you;ll see in this post. Genetic engineering Corporations One of the biggest arguments against improved seed, whether biotech or simply hybrid, is that it is developed by corporations. To be fair, this is often true in 







Document Number: 6947
crops and the use of glyphosate in the environment. This is not a new controversy, but many statements released in recent weeks by groups opposed to the use of genetically modified (GM) crops have claimed that glyphosate use and Roundup Ready technology will be disastrous and that glyphosate has damaged crop production by decreasing nutrient availability to plants, reducing nutrient content of food and livestock feed, and increasing plant susceptibility to disease (Zerbe, 2011). There also are claims that glyphosate is contributing to an increase in more than 40 plant diseases that may also affect human and animal health (Smith, 2011; Zerbe, 2011). However, evidence to support these claims has neither been presented to nor evaluated by the scientific community As scientists, we are equally concerned about the health of the environment and the sustainability of agricultural production. We have previously addressed questions on the impact of glyphosate and manganese (Mn) interactions on soybean (see http://www.btny.purdue.edu/weedscience/2010/GlyphosateMn.pdf ). &nbsp;In this article, we discussed the limited research available on the impact of glyphosate and glyphosate resistant crops on Mn nutrition of soybeans, and encouraged producers to avoid ;insurance; applications of Mn for the sole purpose of counteracting perceived plant health damage due 







Document Number: 1815
Summerset Winery , yum!). Why choose blue and purple? Anthocyanins, of course. These natural plant compounds are nice to look at, and there is a lot of evidence that they have protecting health qualities for those who eat them, protecting us from diseases like cancer, diabetes, and obesity. So, what do we do to make sure that people can get recommended amounts of anthocyanins? Anthocyanin-rich berries are delicious but expensive and only available during certain times of year. Most people do not seek out red cabbage or brightly colored heirloom varieties of veggies like carrots and cauliflower . In the US, the most frequently eaten vegetables are potatoes, lettuce, and tomatoes. Purple tomatoes exist, but heirloom tomatoes have issues like splitting and little time till spoilage. This is fine if you buy them at the farmer;s market and eat them the next day, but is not suitable for things like pasta sauce production (cans and bottles are where most people get their RDA of tomatoes, but it turns out they are healthier that way!). Varieties like Cherokee purple , while awesome, don;t produce anthocyanins throughout the fruit. One option would be to develop tomatoes with high concentrations of anthocyanins. The 







Document Number: 5282
April, trickery in the name of brief entertainment spreads creativity and hilarity throughout the lands. On April Fools, you could play a trick on a friend and have a chuckle amongst a few people, or attempt to spread a joke across the intertubes to maximize the number of affected individuals. Last year on Biofortified we were subjected to a hostile takeover by Greenpeace , and this year I was hoping to do some sort of joke on the blog, but my trip across the world was befuddling my plotting and scheming. I couldn;t think of anything before I left, and was worried about being able to pull something off. Then the ;Pineberry; hit the news. A white strawberry that tastes like pineapple ; sounded fantastic. While people on Wikipedia were debating whether these press releases on March 31st were real or not, to me it didn;t matter. Time to pile on. I pulled a story from the Guardian (that was about the Large Hadron Collider) and rewrote the article . Then I had to edit the features of the html page to make it seem real. (Why would a story on strawberries have physics articles in the related article section 







Document Number: 5779
of voting to decide the winner. Each day, I will post a reason why I think Biofortified deserves your vote. The reason for today is Science. We bring lots of it to the site, and we would like to bring more. Understanding the issues involved in genetic engineering in agriculture means that you have to understand some of the science. You don;t have to have a Ph.D. to have an opinion on the topic (it sure helps), but like any important issue it pays to do research first. Would you buy a car without researching your options? Maybe you don;t need to know exactly how a four-stroke wankel engine works, but knowing the difference between a V6 and a V8 might be important if you want to make the right decision for your driving needs. Wouldn;t it make sense to treat the genetics of the food you eat (and the clothing you wear) with the same information-oriented approach? That is one of the primary reasons why we started this blog almost one year ago: To build a resource for people who want to learn more about plant genetics and genetic engineering, to be confident that they can contribute to the 







Document Number: 4431
I think Biofortified deserves your vote: Dialogue. One of the reasons why we started a group blog to talk about plant genetics and food is because of the many opportunities it allows for dialogue, of several kinds. First, it allows scientists to start talking about their work and the work of others in a manner that people without a background in genetics can access. Most people in this country, and many around the world, have access to a computer that is internet-capable and can read about it. Scientific Journals are the primary go-to place for the latest science and the most complete summaries of knowledge and issues, but these are often behind a registration wall that limits its access to only a small part of the population. On a science blog such as Biofortified new research can be presented where almost anyone can access it, and in a language common to non-scientists. But more importantly, it allows those members of the public to be able to respond with comments, criticisms, and write their own blog posts linking back. Now the one-way flow of information can be two-way, which is how most people discuss issues they find important. This is the 







Document Number: 3538
to 632 votes, leaving behind our leading opponent the Non-GMO Project, at 260 votes. During the course of the day, we have gained about 570 votes to their 100. There are still two more days left to the contest, and you never know how much things may change down the road. So today I will present another reason why I think Biofortified deserves your vote: Honesty. Last week, a day into the final voting week, we received a comment on our entry from Megan Westgate, the Executive Director of the Non-GMO Project. I will reproduce it in full: Biofortified Pro GE? Although you say here you are not pro GE, on your own homepage there is a link to ;Other Pro GE Blogs; implying that yours is one, too. And there is no link to anti GE blogs (which would be a requisite if you really were committed to balanced representation). You even have a link to ;Monsanto According to Monsanto; (the industry blog), but no link to the powerful documentary ;The World According to Monsanto.; Given these facts, how can you really say that you are offering both sides? Your entry here doesn;t seem honest. Anastasia and I both 







Document Number: 1579
To help to that end, I will present the fourth reason why I think we deserve a little of your time: Michael Pollan. When I first heard about the contest, the grand prize was a ;social media training; session and a conversation with Michael Pollan. As I noted on my personal blog, I have been waiting to do an interview with him for almost three years. Back in 2006, I participated in a panel discussion ( available here on UCTV ) with him and others on Food, Farming, and Genetics, as part of the Community Book Project at UC Davis, which focused on The Omnivore;s Dilemma. Pam Ronald was also the moderator of the discussion. Our group conversation left more questions than answer in my head, so I asked him if I could interview him sometime on my radio show and he agreed. A combination of timidity, lack of radio show after moving to Madison for grad school, and the sheer amount of demand on Pollan;s time, it hasn;t yet happened. In the interim, more questions have piled up. Not just about genetics, but even about the philosophy of science, the future of agriculture, and whether he thinks that health 







Document Number: 8240
discovered last night that a stealth competitor that no one noticed has rapidly gained votes. On Monday it was at 2 votes, last night when I saw it it was at 218 votes. Right now it has passed the Non-GMO Project and is sporting 368 total votes! This entry is the Orwellian-named Campaign for Healthier Eating in America , an initiative started by dance instructor and author Jeffrey Smith. Orwellian? Oh yes, it isn;t about getting people to eat more vegetables and cut down on saturated fat ; it is about getting people to eat blue corn instead of yellow corn to avoid GE crops. In fact, on their website, Smith explains how manufacturers can advertise in his ;shopping guide,; for a nominal fee of course. What does the money go to? Interestingly, Smith is on the Communications Committee of the Non-GMO Project. Anyway, for my final reason why I think Biofortified deserves your vote, I will briefly discuss the grant that comes with the grand prize. When we entered, there was no such grant being awarded. Consequently after it was added, we have thought about what we would want to do with that money. Here are some of the 







Document Number: 7801
problem and how can we develop changes that will have the most benefit? Agricultural Life Cycle Analysis is a useful tool in collecting information and making decisions. LCAs take every input and every output into consideration including difficult to consider ouputs like greenhouse gas emissions. Nathan Pelletier from Dalhouse Uni in Nova Scotia presented his work on ag LCAs at Iowa State recently. He explains that actually conducting LCAs can be difficult. First, we need to define the scope of the analysis. For example, if we consider milk production, we should likely include the cow herself, food, water, and waste. We probably should include all of the inputs and outputs associated with feed production and transportation. We might include the inputs and outputs of pasteurizing and transporting the milk. Also difficult is actually quantifying all of the inputs and outputs to air, soil, and water. Finally, it is difficult to complete a meaningful impact assessment including the identification of ;hotspots; or most negative impacts. Despite the difficulties, LCAs are worth the effort. Nathan reminds us that agriculture produces 1/3 of global warming emissions. The demand for food will will double by 2050, so we need to half the impact to 







Document Number: 3690
thorny regulatory thicket; that makes almost impossible the use of advanced gene modification methods, researchers say. In a new study published today in the journal BioScience , scientists argue that major regulatory reforms and possibly new laws are needed to allow cellulosic bioenergy to reach its true potential as a form of renewable energy, and in some cases help reduce greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming. ;It;s extraordinary that gene modification technology, which has been adapted more rapidly than any other technology in the history of agriculture, and had some profound environmental and economic benefits, has been regulated virtually out of existence for perennial cellulosic biofuels crops,; said Steve Strauss, a distinguished professor of forest biotechnology at Oregon State University, and lead author of the paper. In the report, the authors noted that exotic plant species pose a serious risk of spread and ecosystem impacts, but face much less stringent regulation or obstacles than genetically engineered crops, which are carefully designed to solve problems, not cause them. A genetically modified plant in which one or a few genes have been changed is treated as more of a risk than an invasive species that has thousands of new genes, and 







Document Number: 665
few other commercialized traits, such as virus resistant papaya and squash, but why aren;t there more? We see all sorts of papers about awesome genetically engineered traits, from nemotode resistance to nutritional enhancement to really specialized traits like nicotine free tobacco and allergen free peanuts. There are so many traits that we even started a list at Biofortified in an attempt to keep track of them all. These traits have been developed and tested for efficacy, often with public funding, but haven;t make it to the commercialization stage. All that;s needed is a little breeding to get these traits ready for market. Why don;t we see them in the grocery store? UC Davis researchers Kent Bradford and Jamie Miller have collected a huge amount of data on genetically engineered traits and presented it in their recent paper The regulatory bottleneck for biotech specialty crops . It;s a short but insightful piece. Don;t forget to check out the supplementary material that has lists of all the different traits they found described in the literature. Here;s the first two paragraphs to whet your appetite: Specialty crops, which include fruits, vegetables, nuts, turf and ornamental crops, are important components of human diets and 







Document Number: 8774
need completely different soils and climates. That;s why we see a lot of corn and soy grown in Iowa and Illinois, rice in California, and wheat in Kansas. The first generation (or seed based) biofuels have focused on corn, soy, and rapeseed in Europe. None of these grow where rice can grow. Therefore, the amount of rice planted and harvested has nothing to do with land prices or a move to biofuel crops. Some people have said that the rising costs of corn have caused people to buy rice instead. I can imagine this happening in cultures where both starches are used (such as Mexico and South America) but corn has never been a staple food in south east Asia. So, what is causing the rice shortage? Rising fuel costs have also increased the prices of agricultural inputs fertilizer and pesticide. Withholding these inputs can cause decreased yield. Floods have wiped out rice fields through force, and rice plants submerged for more than a few days will die. Increased demand without an increase of supply will of course cause a shortage as well. I;m certainly not the first person to make the disconnection between the rice shortage and biofuels. Philip 







Document Number: 3296
a statement of fact, it is plainly obvious, but what is less obvious is that it also makes a splendid guiding principle for life. I try as best I can to base my life in the best that science has to offer, but I know (more than most it seems) that often times, science does not have all the information we need to make decisions. In many areas of science, from global warming to evolutionary biology, there are gaps in our knowledge that make deciding on a course of action difficult. So I think we need to return to some of the fundamentals. Some scientists say that we don;t know enough about global warming, that the gaps in our knowledge of climate science are too big to make policy decisions based upon it. We could just listen to the majority of climate scientists, but ;consensus; is not a reliable guide for truth ; it merely reflects the current state of knowledge, which in science, is always changing. But what is not changing is that large corporations continue to profit off of climate science denialism, and the risk of inaction outweighs the risk of action. In evolution, creationists often point to 







Document Number: 8998
this entry. Dr. Popescu is a scientist in Romania, working at one of the country;s several crop testing laboratories. The information herein is paraphrased from her presentation. First let;s talk about Romania. I;m no expert, but I;ve hosted Romanian scientists in my lab. It is a country and people trying to join the highly industrialized nations of the world. There is a desire to move from the historical challenges of being a former Eastern Bloc nation into a modern economic power. Right now a sagging economy is weighing heavily on the country and impairing their ascent. Until recently, one of their strengths was agriculture, and one of their major crops was potato. In particular, they used Bt-producing transgenic potato to resist attack of the Colorado Beetle, a beetle clearly out of its jurisdiction in Romania. Switching to Bt potato saved $10 million USD a year for farmers, $4 million in insecticides and $6 million in their application. Here transgenic technology made the farmer more competitive and helped Romania grow as a food exporter. Romania also grew herbicide resistant soybeans. Before 2007 they were net exporters of soy, forming the basis of a trade surplus for the growing nation. Romania went 







Document Number: 4384
describing anyone as unprincipled can hardly be regarded as a compliment. But principles define our way of thinking and making decisions and can blind us to evidence which is inconsistent with our world view. Objectivity is something we should value in all walks of life and in policymaking it should certainly be the norm. However, politicians are all too often big on principles, despite the reality that the most successful governments are often of the pragmatic centre rather than based on doctrinaire politics of any particular shade. A big principle which currently dominates transport policy is that private cars, road transport generally and short distance air travel are intrinsically bad and must be minimised. In the energy field, the mantra of renewables uneconomic and unreliable wind and solar power blinds policymakers to the need to maintain an affordable and reliable power supply while maintaining the fiction that current biofuels are of net benefit. And in agriculture, romantic notions of farming on natural principles ignore the realities of food demand growing without extra land being available; &nbsp;(original edited) ; Transport, you might argue, is to some extent a luxury once the essentials of life have been taken care of (although I 







Document Number: 1809
At the Maize Genetics Conference, I got to listen to their Chair of the Research and Business Development Action Team, Pam Johnson (you can find my summary of her remarks in my post Research and the Recession ). She was a little overenthusiastic, but generally made sense, advocating for better cooperation between government and industry to produce more useful research. I hate to say it, but, was all that just for show? Like any special interest group, NCGA puts out information that is biased toward their own agenda. This is nothing new, every special interest group from Greenpeace to AgBioWorld does it. I know it happens, and yet, I was still shocked yesterday when I read the report Research Shines Light on Gulf of Mexico Hypoxic Zone ( full paper ). The cause of the hypoxic zone has been thoroughly researched by multiple respected organizations including NOAA and USGS , but NCGA throws all that research aside in this report. Lets not blame nitrogen fertilization of corn, they say. Instead, its increased population causing more sewage and the fertilization of lawns (really, they say that). Some of their points are valid, but taken as a whole, the report may as 







Document Number: 9007
either caffeine (or herbicides) into embryos can easily damage the embryo, but humans can&nbsp;safely&nbsp;drink caffeine in moderation. Takashi Kobayashi, Atsuyuki Nishida, Akane Kurokawa, and Fumio Ariyuki (1995) Cardiovascular Malformations Induced by Caffeine and Phenobarbital in Chick Embryos AATEX 3. 17-27 The usage of chick embryos for studying the mechanism of cardiovascular malformations caused by chemicals was studied. Caffeine, well known as a teratogen for the cardiovascular system of chick embryos, was administered at the dose of 3.0 mg per egg to chick embryos from two different breeds between incubation day 2 (ID2, Hamburger and Hamilton stage 14) and 5 (Hamburger and Hamilton stage 27). The eggs were incubated until ID12 to examine the cardiovascular malformation. Treatment at Hamburger and Hamilton stage 19 (ID3) was highly lethal and treatment at this stage and at stages 23-24 (ID4) induced a high degree of cardiovascular malformation in the embryos from both breeds. The embryotoxicity caused by caffeine in the two different breeds similarly varied with the developmental stage of treatment. Paganelli, A., Gnazzo, V., Acosta, H., Lpez, S.L., Carrasco, A.E. 2010. Glyphosate-based herbicides produce teratogenic effects on vertebrates by impairing retinoic acid signalling . Chem. Res. Toxicol., August 9. The broad spectrum herbicide 







Document Number: 740
the potential benefit of providing high-quality animal protein without putting additional pressure on declining wild fish stocks. However, these salmon present some potential risks that warrant examination. First, effects on the health and welfare of the animals must be determined. Second, if genetically engineered salmon were to escape and become established in the wild, native salmon populations or other aspects of the ecosystem could be adversely affected. Third, this genetically engineered trait or some part of the development or rearing process might have health consequences for consumers. These risks must be fully addressed before deregulation can be considered. The science behind the salmon In 1989, the founder animal of the AquAdvantage salmon line was created by injecting an Atlantic salmon ( Salmo salar ) egg with a gene construct (termed opAFP-GHc2; figure 1a ) that contained a promoter and termination region from the ocean pout ( Zoarces americanus ) antifreeze gene and a growth hormone gene from Chinook salmon ( Oncorhynchus tshawytscha ). The ocean pout antifreeze promoter was previously shown to be constitutive, or continually expressing, in salmon (1), in contrast to the native growth hormone promoter in salmon, which only expresses in response to certain environmental cues such 







Document Number: 4503
;is working with the Chinese government to reward farmers in China that grow the firm;s genetically modified (GM) rice, with carbon credits that they can sell for cash.; The rice will reduce fertilizer run off (responsible for oceanic dead zones) and decrease emissions of nitrogen oxide. How does it work? Arcadia;s website isn;t telling all, but I was able to find a paper in the Canadian Journal of Botany: Engineering nitrogen use efficiency with alanine aminotransferase . See the abstract below: Nitrogen (N) is the most important factor limiting crop productivity worldwide. The ability of plants to acquire N from applied fertilizers is one of the critical steps limiting the efficient use of nitrogen. To improve N use efficiency, genetically modified plants that overexpress alanine aminotransferase ( AlaAT ) were engineered by introducing a barley AlaAT cDNA driven by a canola root specific promoter ( btg26 ). Compared with wild-type canola, transgenic plants had increased biomass and seed yield both in the laboratory and field under low N conditions, whereas no differences were observed under high N.The transgenics also had increased nitrate influx. These changes resulted in a 40% decrease in the amount of applied nitrogen fertilizer required under field 







Document Number: 6598
ethical lines. The idea connects ethics to science and engineering, but it frames the relationship in a misleading way. Moral notions and practices inevitably influence and are influenced by science and engineering. The important question is how such interactions should take place. Anticipatory ethics is a new approach that integrates ethics into technological development. Trends in Biotechnology, December 2010, Vol. 28, No. 12 589 QUOTE Directing rather than interfering What are we to make of the rhetoric of going where no humans should go? The above analysis suggests why the questions raised are so important and why the rhetoric is misleading. We should be asking whether science and engineering are taking us where we want to go; bringing morality into engagement with science and engineering ensures that human ends and values are served. However, the rhetoric of line-crossing and restricting is misleading because it suggests that science and engineering are endeavors that move independently of society, and, now and then, must be interfered with, restricted or diverted. This blinds us from seeing science as a means to social ends and it deflects attention away from issues about how science and engineering are now being directed. Acknowledgment that science and engineering 







Document Number: 1507
has been obtained in Peru that is also a victory for those who value their own personal freedom to express scientific criticism. The scientific method is dead if we do not give full licence for practitioners to offer untrammeled objective criticism to anyone who claims scientific credibility. Senior respected Peruvian scientist Ernesto Bustamante had been subjected to criminal prosecution for defamation for merely stating that publically made scientific statements about genetically modified maize were spurious. This defamation action is part of a very disturbing worldwide trend in which the legal process is abused to silence public comment by scientists who speak out about inaccurate statements that are made by activists. General background to the defamation case involving Ernesto Bustamante has been presented in previous GMO Pundit posts: GM report adds twist to Peruvian defamation case Peruvian national agency refutes basis for legal suit against Dr Ernesto Bustamante for expressing scientific comment on spurious claims. Criminal defamation laws are being used to silence scientists We are thus extremely pleased announce in the current post the good news about Ernesto Bustamante;s successful legal appeal to the Superior Court of Lima : The Fifth Criminal Court of the Superior Court of Lima constituted 







Document Number: 7304
honored to be this month;s host. The entries span a wide range of scientific topics that defies summarization. You;ll just have to see for yourself. In no particular order, I present to you this months Scientia Pro Publica. . Dirk Hanson presents Anandamide Hits the Hedonic Hot Spot at Addiction Inbox . This explanation of why marijuana causes the munchies includes discussion of the search for drugs to decrease appetite. Captain Skellett presents Thought controlled computers? Recent research says yes. at A Schooner of Science . Here, the cutting edge of computing meets neuroscience. DNLee presents Heritability ? what you get from your folks at SouthernPlayalisticEvolutionMusic . Defining heritabilty and contrasting it with inheritance, all explained via rap music ; in this case Juvenile;s Mama Got Ass (She Get it From Her Mama). Alexander Peter presents Foam Roller Stretches to Reduce the Risk of Iliotibial Band Syndrome at FoamRoller.org.uk . This article provides some tips on how to prevent the risk of developing Iliotibial Band Syndrome by using a foam roller to relieve the stress from the IT band. Michael Parsons presents 10 Psychological Reasons Why Most Diets Fail at Masters In Psychology . Diets can be tough to keep 







Document Number: 1236
stressful. A quiet life in the country sounds idyllic to people balancing the demands of a job, urban living and paying for it all. But part of this philosophy extends beyond avoiding the stresses of everyday life and wants to turn the clock back to a time when everything, including farming, was simpler and somehow ;better;. By this reckoning, it is important not just to lead a less hectic life, but also to consume in a more ;sustainable; way. The s-word has now become shorthand for all that is good and environmentally friendly; we may not know what it means, but it has warm, comforting connotations and is undeniably A Good Thing (to take the&nbsp; 1066 and all that &nbsp;approach). But, like so many other common terms, few people can actually define sustainability, at least in any meaningful way. The conventional Brundtland formulation, in full, says that: ;Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It contains within it two key concepts: the concept of &nbsp; needs , in particular the essential needs of the world;s poor, to which overriding priority should be given; and 







Document Number: 3378
it is safe for humans and the environment, several EU member states have since banned its cultivation. What are the political reasons behind this ban? And what is MON810 corn exactly? In this report, VIB seeks to answer those questions. It turns out that politics, not science, is the main driver behind the current bans. Aside from the political aspects of the cultivation of the crop, the report also focuses on the molecular underpinnings of MON810 corn, its economical and environmental impact and its consequences for agriculture. Download of report available at link. Update: From comments on this post syndicated at Biofortified Bernada comment: Trusting tests and studies is problematic according to Scientific American. Research on genetically modified seeds is still published, of course. But only studies that the seed companies have approved ever see the light of a peer-reviewed journal. In a number of cases, experiments that had the implicit go-ahead from the seed company were later blocked from publication because the results were not flattering. It is important to understand that it is not always simply a matter of blanket denial of all research requests, which is bad enough, wrote Elson J. Shields, an entomologist at Cornell University, 







Document Number: 6801
engineering that is the target. Nature News reports in Transgenic bacterium sparks row in French schools , that CRIIGEN, led by Gilles-Eric Seralini, is advocating that useful, direct education in fundamentals of genetic transformation should be kept from high school students. I guess it was only a matter of time. The particular brand of extreme belief about the risks of genetic engineering espoused by Seralini, who is the president of the scientific board of The Committee for Research &amp; Independent Information on Genetic Engineering ( CRIIGEN ), has now spilled over into the inevitable conclusion that anything and everything GMO-like should be in advanced low-air-pressure biosafety labs only. Because simple things done a million times over such as adding a plasmid to a tube of harmless bacteria to demonstrate how basic genetic engineering works is knowledge that French high school students should not have access to. Why? Because doing a safe, controlled experiment ;trivializes; a touchy subject. [Seralini] warns against trivialization of a sensitive subject, contamination risks and possible violation of European directives on the manipulation of genetically modified organisms in confined spaces. ;I am also concerned that practical classes erode the time spent imparting knowledge of biology,; he adds. 







Document Number: 5897
attempt to feed more than a few percent of the total number of people. We don;t have enough nitrogen to feed the world in the natural sources of fertiliser that organic farmers are allowed by the ;artificial; rules they have set for themselves. Attempts to expand acreage devoted to organic farming are severely restricted by the availability of essential nitrogen fertiliser components. We need extra synthetic fertiliser to do the job. We cannot rely on the organic approach for more than a modest fraction of the worlds food. This fact of life has been well documented by Vaclav Smil &nbsp;in several books, including Enriching the Earth: Fritz Harber, Carl Bosch, and the Transformation of World Food Production MIT Press 2001. Is it then surprising that some members of the organic food industry cheat when it comes to fertiliser, by using synthetic nitrogen to supplement their ;organic; fertiliser manure? This cheating has shown up in a recent report in the LA Times: Organic fertilizer maker accused of using synthetic chemicals Kenneth Noel Nelson Jr. is indicted on 28 counts of mail fraud in connection with an alleged years-long scheme to dupe farmers and agriculture product distributors. By P.J. Huffstutter, Los Angeles 







Document Number: 4329
radio subject matter ) to helping fund the IRRI , and promoting Pam Ronald;s book, Bill Gates et al are really trying to improve the agricultural conditions in more troubled nations while also raising awareness about the issue. Along with providing vaccines and working on eradicating diseases, they have a lofty set of millennium goals in agriculture. There are millions upon millions of hungry mouths to feed (and feed well), and they are hard at work making this possible through technology, infrastructure, and building a knowledge base within those countries so that they can continue to produce food under their own innovative powers. However, not everyone views the Gates Foundation;s involvement in the developing world as a good thing. Eager to shape foreign agriculture in a less technological way, critics have objected often to any use of fertilizers, pesticides, genetically engineered traits, and even hybrid crops. Arguing that agricultural aid should be limited to organic techniques, anything that smells of technology (which is strange because organic is a specific set of technologies) is immediately associated with big business interests in developed countries like the US. For years, the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates foundation was associated with the likes of Monsanto, 







Document Number: 6398
did the heavy metal get in there? In making HFCS that natural sweetener, as the Corn Refiners Associaton [sic] likes to call it caustic soda is one ingredient used to separate corn starch from the corn kernel. Apparently most caustic soda for years has been produced in industrial chlorine (chlor-alkali) plants, where it can be contaminated with mercury that it passes on to the HFCS, and then to consumers. First of all, Im no particular fan of corn syrup; it tastes nasty and I avoid it. However, I also avoid added sugar or rice syrup or any other sweetener because I eat enough calories without them. Various types of foodie have been railing against HFCS for a long time, but I havent actually be able to figure out why. Instead of saying HFCS is bad we should be saying processed food is bad. Any special link between obesity and HFCS was broken in December with a comprehensive review in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition (see press release in Newswise ). The other argument against HFCS is that we are growing too much corn, but this is a sidestep at best. If people really cared about the amount of acres 







Document Number: 6076
non-peer-reviewed reports, but can we trust them? Let;s take Research Shines Light on Gulf of Mexico Hypoxic Zone ( full paper ) as an example. This report by the National Corn Growers association was, to be blunt, biased to the point of falsehood. I explain how in Rotten Corn . The organization has an agenda to put corn farming practices in the best possible light, which means every report we see from them will have some degree of spin. We should expect some degree of spin from any of these groups, but sometimes they overstep the line. Spin can be frustrating, particularly when we have specific evidence that contradicts what the special interest group said. What happens when the bias isn;t as obvious as in the NCG;s hypoxia report? Sometimes these reports seem 100% legitimate, especially when we agree with the agenda of the group, and especially when we don;t have the prerequisite knowledge to judge them. Even worse, there are many situations where two groups will put out directly opposing reports. Each group claims to have the ;real; information, sometimes even calling out opposing reports. The most recent example of this is the Organic Center;s Impacts of Genetically Engineered 







Document Number: 6701
is withdrawing from the Leonardo Academys initiative to develop a sustainable agriculture standard for American National Standards Institute. While ASA supports the goal of a sustainable agriculture standard, it has become clear that that the Leonardo Academy process is biased against a balanced and open analysis of modern agriculture. Fifty-four other commodity and farm organizations representing U.S. production agriculture interests joined ASA in withdrawing from the Leonardo Academys process. ;This decision was not made easily,; said ASA Board member Ron Moore, a soybean producer from Roseville, Ill., ;for it means walking away from nearly two years of investment in active Leonardo Academy Committee membership in an effort to produce an on-farm standard. However, it is clear based on actions this past summer that any continued effort cannot and will not overcome the serious systemic limitations and chronic biases that are inherent in the structure the Leonardo Academy has set up for this initiative.; After being elected Vice-Chair of the Standards Committee at its inception, Moore has served as Acting Chairman since June 2010. Despite the Leonardo Academys claim that the Committee is made up of members from ;across all areas of agriculture,; in reality the Committee is dominated by environmental 







Document Number: 311
practices proves to be the concept of sustainability as it relates to the environmental impact of many industries. U.S. soybean farmers have long been good environmental stewards. &nbsp;Soybeans represent one of the most popular legumes plants that naturally restore valuable nitrogen to soil. Precisely for that reason, soybeans represent one of the most common oilseeds as part of a crop rotation. The soybean checkoff has demonstrated, in several ways, the sustainability of U.S. soybeans and soybean production. The United Soybean Board (USB) and the soybean checkoff collaborate with U.S. agriculture industry leaders, as well as with the industrys customer base, to measure and establish a baseline for sustainable U.S. soybean production. The checkoffs definition of sustainability reads: Sustainable soybean agriculture will meet the needs of the present while improving the ability of future generations to meet their own needs by adoption of technology and best practices that increase productivity to meet future needs while being stewards of the environment, improving human health through access to safe, nutritious food and enhancing the social and economic well-being of agriculture and its communities. The United Soybean Board (USB), the farmer-driven research and promotion checkoff organization for U.S. soybeans, recognizes the need to support 







Document Number: 2412
be willing to fund solutions. Distinguished Professor John Pesak sent the editorial to some ISU students and faculty, saying: ;He makes some excellent points with which there cannot be too much disagreement.; Indeed, who can say that developing crops that can handle new challenges is a bad thing? I;ve posted the full article below for your convenience. A quick summary of Stem Rust Never Sleeps : Stem rust is a fungus that can decimate wheat fields. In the 1950s, Dr. Borlaug and others developed resistant wheat lines, but these lines are no help against a new strain of the fungus. We, as a planet (and especially in the US), must fund research to prevent the loss of millions of tons of wheat. Unfortunately, the US is doing exactly the opposite, cutting funding for agricultural research. Specifically, stem rust research at the Cereal Disease Laborotory in St. Paul Minnesota is poised to loose funding, according to Dr. Borlaug, despite the importance of the research. Say what you will about the Green Revolution ; but Dr. Borlaug knows how to feed people. If anyone is equipped to notice an upcoming crisis, it;s him. We all need to contact our congresspeople and representatives, 







Document Number: 1189
first plenary talk, titled Stress tolerant maize for the developing world ; Challenges and prospects. Find the abstract of her talk at the end of this post. Of all of the staple grains, maize is the most drought susceptible. Wheat is fairly drought tolerant, and rice is irrigated. Maize is sensitive to variation in rainfall, and since it is typically not irrigated, any year to year variation in rainfall will be seen as year to year variation of yield, with low rainfall years yielding less than high rainfall years. There are some drought tolerant varieties that don;t have such variation with rainfall, but they are consistently low yielding, even in high rainfall years. In order to provide enough food for growing populations, maize must be developed that can maintain reasonably high yields even in drought years. A second major problem with maize is nitrogen. Maize reacts well to fertilizer application, providing (to a point) higher yields with higher amounts of nitrogen. However, less than 50% of applied fertilizer is used by the plant, leaving much of the nitrogen unused This unused fertilizer can be carried via surface waters to places like the Gulf of Mexico where it can contribute to 







Document Number: 8365
we use, we might find different definitions and different opinions of how useful they are in determining the safety of products of genetic engineering. The USDA provides information on Food Safety Assessment and Considerations as part of their Focus on Food Biotechnology page at the Food Safety Research Information Office . What substantial equivalence can do is give us a starting point. We know that there is variation in amounts and types of proteins and metabolites, gene expression, and other parameters from variety to variety, from environment to environment, and from plant to plant. For example, if I use a microarray to find similarly and differently expressed genes in two genetically identical plants grown in slightly different environments, such as different temperatures, I will find some genes that have significantly different expression. Similarly, plants of different varieties grown in the same environment will have different gene expression profiles and even two identical plants in the same environment will have some differences. The first step in a comparative assessment is to test and compare the genetically engineered variety to a genetically similar variety that doesn;t have the trans- or cis-gene. Tests can include gene expression, metabolic profiles, feeding studies, and more. 







Document Number: 8572
an Environmental Impact Statement. According to regulation, an EA is sufficient if potential harm is found to be minimal, but an EIS is needed for anything that is less well understood, such as a new trait (and this is hardly a new trait). After reading the EA, I agree with the USDA that the potential environmental harm is minimal, and I think the potential economic harm is minimal as well, due to some very specific characteristics of beet biology, which I;ll explain in this post, followed by a discussion of mitigation strategies that might be used to control gene flow in beets (sorry, folks, this is going to be another long one). Beet flowers and seeds, originally from Koehlers Medicinal-Plants circa 1887, via Wikipedia. Beet biology Sugar beets are biennial, which means they need two years before they reach maturity. During the 1st year, the plants produce a large root that, when dried, is 15-20% sugar. During the 2nd year, the plant uses those stored sugars to produce flowers and then seeds. Sugar beets harvested for sugar, therefore, dont produce flowers or pollen or seeds. Sometimes a few plants will bolt or flower when they arent supposed to, such as 







Document Number: 9282
case. In a landslide 7:1 ruling (with one recusing), the high court has lifted the nationwide ban on planting genetically engineered herbicide-tolerant alfalfa. What does this mean for GE alfalfa and sugar beet plantings that have been affected by the courts? Although the social media chatter over the case was mostly characterizing it as crucial to win to ;stop; GE alfalfa, it was really more about what the proper course of action is for the GE regulatory process, and whether a court can issue an injunction against planting GE crops while the environmental impact statement (EIS) is being drafted, without having to provide evidence of harm. For more background information, read my previous post about the case . In essence, the court was considering whether the lower court was right in ;remanding; the GE alfalfa back to the USDA to determine whether it was ok to plant, while also issuing an injunction preventing them from saying it was ok to plant until the EIS is complete. SCOTUS ruled that the lower court acted wrongly by remanding and enjoining at the same time. The District Court abused its discretion in enjoining APHIS from effecting a partial deregulation and in prohibiting the 







Document Number: 3486
is being held today. The case is Monsanto Company v. Geertson Seed Farms, ( SCOTUS Wiki ) and depending on how this turns out, it could mean the end of genetically engineered alfalfa forever or the eventual destruction of all organic dairies, right? Well, no. So what is the court case about? The court case is not actually about GE alfalfa, although this legal battle began with alfalfa. In 2006, several groups joined together led by the Center for Food Safety to sue the Secretary of Agriculture over the deregulation of roundup-ready alfalfa produced by Monsanto. The USDA had conducted an Environmental Assessment according to its GE crop approval policies and concluded that there were no big issues that they needed to investigate further. If they had found any in the assessment they would have moved on to the much more involved Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The court case over GE alfalfa was decided in 2007, with US District Court Judge Charles R. Breyer saying that the USDA should have done the full EIS, and placed an injunction on future plantings of GE alfalfa until such an EIS is conducted by the USDA. Farmers already growing the alfalfa could continue 







Document Number: 6997
that can affect the thyroid. Thankfully Greenpeace is not issuing demands for the banning of all seaweeds in food. Hopefully the case might highlight the idea that a balanced overall diet is more important for human health than any particular so called ;healthy food;. Soy product robbed me of joys of motherhood: lawsuit figure Daniella Miletic October 1, 2010 The Age , Melbourne Bonsoy milks the life out of a mother Erin Downie and 24 other plaintiffs lodge a class action against the distributors of Bonsoy for the product;s toxically high levels of iodine. ERIN Downie drank Bonsoy when she became pregnant because she was told it was the best soy milk on the market. When she had trouble breastfeeding, she drank more. She put it in her porridge, in her smoothies, in her cups of tea. She never imagined the soy milk would allegedly lead her to be admitted to hospital twice, and leave her so weak that she couldn;t shower herself or pick up her baby, Mirakye, after she was born.&nbsp; Crying, Ms Downie yesterday spoke of how her dream of being an active, engaged mother was taken away after her daughter, now two, was born. Ms Downie 







Document Number: 9363
both those in favor and against genetic engineering are engaging in healthy repartee. I am glad to see Duncan and Jasmine offering their perspectives on labeling issues. Reading the comments, it is almost as if everyone is surprised to be enjoying talking to each other! In the tweetverse, I think I have made a new friend in Gavin ( @morethanorganic ), and although we both strongly disagree on both genetically engineered golden rice and cross-pollination issues, we both learned that we agree that sovereign nations should have the right to decide for themselves whether to allow their people to grow it . If I had thought that he was just another hard-line anti-GE person I might have thought that he believed that wealthy nations could tell the Philippines ;no; to keep orange grains from showing up in their imports. Imagine how horrible that would be if it happened! I think most people can recognize that fact, and are not lacking in moral grounding. He also learned that genetic engineers aren;t haphazardly throwing genes out in the wild without analyzing the potential consequences . This is what everyone can gain from civil and indeed, friendly dialogue. On the other hand, someone 







Document Number: 9852
prepare our thoughts for what we wanted to talk about (And what we wanted to eat), and I daresay we did well on both accounts. Golden Gate from Aquatic Park We coordinated our flights from Wisconsin and Iowa to meet up at about Noon on Saturday the 23rd, giving us ample time to hang out and zoom around the Bay Area before the big dinner. We stayed at my folks; place in Petaluma, so it was very convenient that Michael happens to live near to where I grew up! They were happy to host, and to use us as an excuse to go eat Thai food! First of all, it was great to spend the weekend hanging out with Anastasia (and Frank). Over the last couple of years, while joining forces to write about plant genetics, we have not only become good friends but also research collaborators. It makes me wonder if science blogging should join the list of suggested activities for professional development at graduate school? I;m serious. Whether we were sitting in a restaurant by Aquatic Park, checking out the Japanese tea gardens and botanical gardens at Golden Gate Park, or driving all around we discussed a million 







Document Number: 4207
, I showed how Jim Riddle;s 10 reasons why genetic engineering is incompatible with organic agriculture apply equally well to plant breeding. But many plant breeding techniques are allowed in organic agriculture. So how can these characteristics apply to both breeding and genetic engineering while one is compatible and the other is not? The answer lies in a tangled web of invalid logic and unsound argumentation. It requires not only misrepresenting genetic engineering, it also misrepresents organic agriculture. Let;s go through point by point. (You might need a cup of coffee or a stiff drink) 1. Basic science. Humans have a complex digestive system, populated with flora, fauna, and enzymes that have evolved over millennia to recognize and break down foods found in nature to make nutrients available to feed the human body. GMO crops and foods are comprised of novel genetic constructs which have never before been part of the human diet and may not be recognized by the intestinal system as digestible food, leading to the possible relationship between genetic engineering and a dramatic increase in food allergies, obesity, diabetes, and other food-related diseases, which have all dramatically increased correlated to the introduction of GMO crops and foods. 







Document Number: 9423
sterile seeds that cannot be regrown. The use of this technology to force farmers to repurchase their seeds every year is often what causes the greatest objection from opponents of genetic engineering. But what is interesting is that like the films where this technology gets its nickname, it can also be used to protect seed-saving farmers. ;Terminator; technology, also referred to as ;Suicide Seeds,; are marketing terms coined by GE opponents to reframe what is technically called Genetic Use Restriction Technology , or GURT. This technology can take several forms, the most widely discussed one was developed by scientists working at the USDA and the Delta and Land Pine company, which is now owned by Monsanto. It works by means of three engineered genes, that when brought together in one plant, they act in combination to halt the development of embryos in the seeds the plant produces. The result is a plant that produces food as normal, but does not produce fertile seeds. For those that are interested in a full scientific explanation of the technology, you can read about it here . But in short, GURTs can be used by seed companies to protect their intellectual property by preventing 







Document Number: 8215
but how about the farmers who grew your veggies and raised the bird? I know some people out there take the time to draw attention to the source of their food for special meals, and it looks like even our President, Barack Obama, would like citizens to take a moment to reflect on their food this week. He has declared Thanksgiving week National Farm-City Week ! A PROCLAMATION Our Nation;s farm and ranch families supply many of the basic necessities of our daily life. They manage a large portion of our country;s fertile land base, and they are caretakers of our valuable natural resources and diverse ecosystems. Their connections with urban and suburban communities are critical to our economy and to the nourishment of our people. During National Farm-City Week, we express gratitude for the contributions of our Nation;s farmers and ranchers, and we rededicate ourselves to providing all Americans with access to healthy food, and thus, a healthy future. Pioneered by Native Americans, agriculture was our Nation;s first industry. For agriculture to thrive in the 21st century, we must continue to cultivate the relationships between farmers and rural businesses and their partners and customers in cities and towns. American 







Document Number: 1786
and more. But I have a moment in my favorite coffee shop in Culver City to share a little song I put together. As you are probably aware, I;ve been chatting and debating with some folks over at Grist lately, and the conversations have been both revealing and instructive, while also being up close and personal. It was amazing to see as I pointed out that both Tom Philpott and Tom Laskawy were wrong on basic facts and also wrong on interpretations, that they have not once responded to my comments. Doug Gurian-Sherman laid down a bombshell that he doesn;t care if anyone thinks his stuff is peer-reviewed or not, and an anti-GE campaigner thanked me for being the first scientist to explain something to her (brownie points that didn;t last very long, apparently). And amidst a string of personal attacks, a surprise defender swooped in! There;s not enough time for me to find each comment, but the verses here are all based on real comments, you can search my Grist comment account to find them if you like. And this holiday season, Grist itself sent me half a dozen requests for money as a registered user (besides banner ads 







Document Number: 9122
other little things running in the background that you may or may not have noticed, this new addition is something I;m really excited about. I have been to many sites that have their own forums for allowing users to start their own discussions, and I have wanted to add one to the site for some time. But those forums are often tacked on to the sites where they are hosted, and feel like an external addition, not unlike a lean-to. No one wants to hang out in a shed attached to a mansion! And to have to have two sets of keys to get into each one? No thanks! Yes, the new forum is contained within the site, thanks to a spiffy wordpress plugin called Forum Server . It places the forum into any page you want within the site, and so the discussion happens with the look and feel of the site it is a part of. Seamless. But the best part about this plugin is that it taps into the same base of users that the blog uses. Register for one and you are registered for both! One set of keys does it. Plus, if you sign up 







Document Number: 3003
by D Tribe. There is much debate and concern about food security and development for Africa. On a hopeful note, several GMO Pundit posts have dealt with the wonderful story of improved corn growing output in Malawi (see links at the end of this posting). GMO Pundit has now found the time to look over the FAO official statistics for corn production and corn trade in Malawi.&nbsp; He has produced from official FAO statistics the graph shown above. This graph documents the overall economic story surrounding the decisive government policy response to the disastrous 2005 food crisis in that country with interventions that subsidised seed and fertiliser inputs for 1 million smallholder farmers. The the trade and farm statistics suggest that Malawi has made a break from the past as a result of this carefully considered intervention. The past consisted of all too frequent food emergencies;and Malawi was at these times of food crises, a food import-dependent country. The present record shows that that Malawi is now a major maize exporter with significantly increased capacity to produce the staple maize crop. It will be fascinating to follow the ongoing results of corn trade from this country, which will hopefully increase 







Document Number: 879
global food system between now and 2050 and&nbsp;identify the decisions that policy makers need to take today, and in the years ahead, to ensure that a global population rising to nine billion or more can be fed sustainably and equitably. The global food system will experience an unprecedented confluence of pressures over the next 40 years. On the demand side, global population size will increase from nearly seven billion today to eight billion by 2030, and probably to over nine billion by 2050; many people are likely to be wealthier, creating demand for a more varied, high-quality diet requiring additional resources to produce. On the production side, competition for land, water and energy will intensify, while the effects of climate change will become increasingly apparent. The need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to a changing climate will become imperative. Over this period globalisation will continue, exposing the food system to novel economic and political pressures. Any one of these pressures (drivers of change) would present substantial challenges to food security; together they constitute a major threat that requires a strategic reappraisal of how the world is fed. Overall, the Project has identified and analysed five key challenges for 







Document Number: 6149
the environment attract a hail of abuse from other scientists. Emily Waltz asks if the critics fight fair. The article is pretty good, and it discusses a 2007 paper about Bt corn negatively affecting caddissfly larva when compared to non-Bt corn. ;Toxins in transgenic crop byproducts may affect headwater stream ecosystems;, by Rosi-Marhsall et al. You can access the paper here , and also read Anastasia;s commentary about the paper with Even Scientists make Mistakes at Genetic Maize. Waltz;s article doesn;t focus so much on the paper itself so much as the responses to the paper, with implications for the culture of scientific debate following controversial results. If someone comes along with a preliminary result that is based on a study with some problems, and there is a danger that it could be used politically to everyone;s detriment, what is the proper response? Shoot it down with all your guns blazing, snipe the problems at a distance, or politely suggest a more rigorous examination? Will the latter response prevent it from being used to make policy decisions? In the case of this particular paper, it was used by anti-GE organizations, and found its way into supporting the French ban on 







Document Number: 5980
of Transgenic Plants for Food Security in the Context of Development was held under the sponsorship of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences at its headquarters in the Casina Pio IV in the Vatican from 15 to 19 May 2009. During the course of the meeting, we surveyed recent advances in the scientific understanding of novel varieties of genetically engineered (GE) plants, as well as the social conditions under which GE technology could be made available for the improvement of agriculture in general and for the benefit of the poor and vulnerable in particular. The spirit of the participants was inspired by the same approach to technology that Benedict XVI expressed in his new Encyclical, in particular that Technology is the objective side of human action (1) whose origin and raison dtre is found in the subjective element: the worker himself. For this reason, technology is never merely technology. It reveals man and his aspirations towards development, it expresses the inner tension that impels him gradually to overcome material limitations. Technology, in this sense, is a response to Gods command to till and to keep the land (cf. Gen 2:15) that he has entrusted to humanity, and it must serve to 







Document Number: 692
and anecdotal claims, but that is not the reason why I bring it up. The discussion was derailed by a few tangents, and I was just about to abandon reading it any further, until someone posted their real reason why they believe that GE foods are unsafe. Personal experience. Barbara Peterson , a retired correctional officer from California, described how she eliminated a food reaction that her mother was having, through dietary changes. She then went on to experiment on herself: You;d think I would have learned from this, but no. I kept on with the processed foods for myself, along with the good stuff. Well, guess what? Yup, I got the ugly stuff too. This stuff was so bad that it started on my leg and spread all the way to my shoulders and down my arms. It looked like the worst case of oozing poison oak you have ever seen. It felt like bugs were crawling under my skin, and I couldn;t sleep. I was going crazy. I started experimenting on myself, and researching about GMOs. At first, I cut out everything but raw veggies, fruits, and organic eggs. I started clearing up. It took a while, but 







Document Number: 1318
answers the question this way : ;this is weird: agriculture is biotechnology, and just breaking ground with a sharp stick and throwing some seeds in is an example of an ;unnatural; human practice; He also publishes the opposition;s ; top secret email ;, which has some gobbledy-gook about how farmers are turning against GE crops (um, name one?) and contaminating nature (massive reductions in insecticide use on BT cotton fields and enhanced biodiversity is destruction?). PZ also asks you to ;notice who is backing up all their arguments with citations of the peer-reviewed literature.; Don;t forget to vote . My final statement: Virtually every food we eat has been genetically altered. Unless you eat wild Alaskan salmon, chanterelles gathered from your local forest, Sierra Nevada yampah and wild blueberries, your diet consists entirely of foods that have been modified by humans and domesticated in artificial, fabulous ecosystems;called farms. GE crops are the latest addition to our farms. Are Bt cotton and GE papaya different from conventionally bred cotton and papaya? Yes. Scientists have introduced a bacterial gene into corn and a snippet of virus into papaya. These alterations are not feats that could have been carried out with conventional breeding 







Document Number: 9421
soybean, and winter wheat produced 90% as well as their conventionally managed counterparts;. In their paper, Organic and Conventional Production Systems in the Wisconsin Integrated Cropping Systems Trials: I. Productivity 19902002 , the researchers point out that the 90% is an average. In 34% of site-years, mechanical weed control methods were not successful, resulting in only 74% yield compared to conventional. In the remaining 66% of site-years, yields were 99% of conventional. Producing as much or more with fewer inputs is definitely the right direction in a world where inputs are becoming more and more expensive. A less positive note can be found when we consider how unpredictable agriculture can be, with insects, weather, and fungi just to name a few. University of Illinois researchers found that high CO2 levels cause plants to loose their ability to defend themselves against herbivorous beetles . This could become a serious problem, considering that CO2 levels have been steadily rising. Climate change is already causing huge fluctuations in weather patterns, including droughts, freezes, and floods. A destructive wheat fungus has recently spread from Africa into the Middle East and Asia; Is it realistic to expect organic methods to keep up with all of 







Document Number: 1685
mission statements and no clear agenda for attaining their stated goals. I once spent a summer working for the latter type. A hallmark of this kind of crew is the use of the petition (bonus points if it;s online and has been circulating for more than a year ). Issue-specific petitions almost never work when directed at agencies; they are often unsophisticated (in a legal sense) and rife with ambiguous language and emotional rhetoric. If I were more cynical, I might point out the possibility that many people in charge of these groups are aware of their petitions; minuscule chances for success and instead use them to gin up controversy and interest in their cause, which is always a great way to get a few email addresses or financial contributions;some petitions even have a convenient donate button right next to where you ;sign; your name! A quick google search for ; gm labeling petition ; pulls up, well, more petitions than I really care to count. Most make seemingly modest demands about the ;right to know,; consumer education, and truth in advertising. Is that an accurate view of the debate: Consumer education versus corporate secrecy? Truth is, the legal reality 







Document Number: 9114
24th, 2010 . 1 Comment Since I was a teenager in the Seventies, Ive always regarded myself as a pretty green. Green in the environmental sense that is. I remember the campaign to get lead out of petrol with affection. I studied Environmental Science at university and can remember talking long into the night about issues affecting the planet. I think I even joined the Ecology Party, the forerunner of the Green Party when I was about 18 though I dont remember doing anything other than pay the subscription. Jobs were short when I graduated and I got a job formulating cosmetics rather than doing the environmental work I had originally had in mind. I was surprised to find myself in an industry where people seemed pretty positive about issues close to my heart. Biodegradable surfactants were a new thing but there was never any question of using anything else. I have spoken on other blogs about the fact that formaldehyde was still in use then, but was being removed purely at the initiative of the chemists in the labs. Given this, I have always listened with care and attention to the environmental lobby. For a long time I didnt 







Document Number: 6116
the farm;s Seeds of Change variety trial. The green striped, red striped, orange, dark striped, etc. tomatoes represent only a fraction of the 75 varieties the farm trialed this year. There are a couple of red slicers in the mix as well. In their newsletter, the Student Farm crew (Eric, Larisa, Sasha, Ari, Ethan and Raoul) asks us customers to observe how the trial tomato varieties compare to the hybrid red slicers in terms of flavor, texture, and degree of softness. Today;s baskets include: peppers, okra, onions, garlic, chard, basil, tomatoes, cherry tomatoes, tomatillos, figs, grapes, zucchini, Chinese Long Beans, green beans, and pumpkins. The Student Farm recipe of the week is from chow.com . Pumpkin Curry. When cooked, pumpkin becomes sweet and makes the perfect partner for fiery chili and warm spices such as cumin and turmeric. Despite its quick cooking time, this dish has a rounded flavor. Serve as a vegetable aside to meat and fish dishes or by itself with steamed basmati rice or flatbreads and maybe an accompanying salad. INGREDIENTS 1 pound pumpkin or butternut squash, cut into 1-inch cubes 1 teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon smoked paprika 2 1/2 cups water 7 ounces freshly grated coconut 







Document Number: 1956
(D-PA), in response to authors of blog posts and petitions that didn;t quite seem to have read it before getting all excited about it. The next big GMO scandal involves recommended changes to the Codex Alimentarius Commission of the Joint FAO/WHO Food Standards Programme. All relevant documents have been posted by the Codex Committee on Food Labeling (CCFL), apparently unknown to those who would have us up in alarm. The Institute for Responsible Technology (founded by Jeffery Smith ) wants us to pay attention to their Action Alert ; Codex Conference (emphasis original): Please send this URGENT message to US Government leaders to protect your right to know which foods are made from genetically modified organisms (GMOs); They must stop US negotiators at an international (Codex) conference from May 3-7, from pushing an agenda that could make it difficult for anyone, anywhere in the world to label foods as genetically modified (GM) foodor even make non-GMO claims on their products label. A petition on CREDO Action Network is even more alarming (emphasis mine): ;the current U.S. draft position paper declares that mandatory labeling laws such as they have in Europe are ;false, misleading or deceptive.; If the U.S. succeeds in 







Document Number: 5425
ramp up surveillance; provide farmers with resistant wheat varieties &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;ITHACA, NY (27 February 2011)The United Kingdoms Department of International Development (DFID) and the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation today announced they will invest US$40 million in a global project led by Cornell University to combat deadly strains of Ug99, an evolving wheat pathogen that poses a dangerous threat to global food security, particularly in the poorest nations of the developing world. &nbsp;The five-year grant, made to the Durable Rust Resistance in Wheat (DRRW) project at Cornell will support efforts to identify new stem rust resistant genes in wheat, improve surveillance, and multiply and distribute rust-resistant wheat seed to farmers and their families. &nbsp;We cannot overstate the importance of this announcement on the part of two of the most important funders of solutions for addressing the causes of poverty, hunger and disease in the developing world, said Ronnie Coffman, Cornell professor of plant breeding and genetics and director of DRRW. Against the backdrop of rising food prices, and wheat in particular, researchers worldwide will be able to play an increasingly vital role in protecting wheat fields from dangerous new forms of stem rust, particularly in countries whose people can ill 







Document Number: 8699
synthetic food colorings. The bills have been pushed by the Center for Science in the Public Interest which charges the food dyes have been linked to ADHD, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. The Maryland bills deal with the dyes: Blue 1; Blue 2; Green 3; Orange B; Red 3; Red 40; Yellow 5 and Yellow 6. One of the bills would prohibit public schools and child care facilities from providing food with the coloring in it. The second bill would require a label warning: The color additives in this food may cause hyperactivity and behavior problems in some children. Use of the dyes would be banned in the state in 2012. The food industry opposes the bill saying the link to ADHD is based on flawed research while the Food and Drug Administration states there is no scientific evidence to support the claim that the colorings cause hyperactivity. I;m rather conflicted about this. On the one hand, there really isn;t any science backing the idea that dye causes ADHD, although perhaps there is a genetic predisposition that is exacerbated by the dye. There are studies showing a link between dye and hyperactivity ; is that enough of a reason to 







Document Number: 388
choices. I am a label reader. If there is an excess of added sugar or too many ingredients with names that I don;t recognize then I don;t buy the product. Not all information, however, is useful. A few months ago our local food coop began posting red ;consumer alert; signs that say, ;Conventional foods that contain corn, soy, or canola may be genetically engineered.; I nd these signs more annoying than helpful. It is a little bit like the warnings posted on science textbooks in some states that say, ;This textbook discusses evolution, a controversial theory which some scientists present as scientic explanation for the origin of living things, such as plants and humans. No one was present when life rst appeared on Earth. Therefore, any statement about life;s origins should be considered as theory, not fact;. Neither statement says anything informative about the state of our food nor the creation of our universe. With no specic hazards associated with GE foods or evolution, how can a consumer use these statements to make a more informed choice about the risk to their health or to their faith in God? The National Research Council Committee states that attempts to assess food 







Document Number: 2725
many. After at least three decades of ;rapid growth,; Organic now accounts for 0.52% of harvested US cropland. NASS did not go ahead and compare the yields of Organic crops to equivalent data for the rest of agriculture, but all that data is publicly available and I have posted a comparative analysis on SCRIBD . Organic crop yields are generally lower, but it is hard to put that into perspective. What does it mean for Organic corn yields to be 71% of the national average? What does it mean that Organic soy yields are 66% of the national average? One way to put this in perspective is to ask the question, ;how many years ago was non-Organic ag getting the kind of yields that Organic saw in 2008?; Through a host of technical and operational advances, the yields of most crops in the developed world have been increasing steadily ever since the mid 20th century. This is a very good thing because we have thus been able to feed a growing world population without even more land-use-conversion than has happened. A high research investment crop like corn has yields that have been going up at a pace of 2 bushels/acre/year 







Document Number: 2794
I would put together a short list of genetic engineering campaigns that rose and fell this year. Get ready for the Top Flops of 2009! Beet This The first campaign I would like to talk about is part of an ongoing effort to oppose genetically engineered sugar beets. Sugar beets are an interesting variety of plant, bred from chard and fodder beets to become a white behemoth that is up to 1/5 sugar by dry weight. About 30% of the sugar produced in the world comes from these beets, 1 million acres of them in the US, so it comes as no surprise that sooner or later a GE sugar beet would come along. Europe, however, is a much bigger producer, apparently for political and historical reasons as much as biological. (Read the Wikipedia page for more history.) Growing fields of beets is not always easy, and conventional sugar beets have often required many applications of different herbicides and pesticides. When Monsanto;s Roundup-Ready sugar beets came along in 2008, they were very popular among farmers that adopted them, and 2009 saw a dramatic expansion with about 90% of acres in the U.S. being planted with the biotech beets. This got 







Document Number: 9628
that policy decisions must be based on empirical data and objective risk-benefit analysis, not arbitrary classifications. The paper was Choosing Organic Pesticides over Synthetic Pesticides May Not Effectively Mitigate Environmental Risk in Soybeans (full text) by Christine Bahlai et al . Long story short, the research showed that some synthetic pesticides were more environmentally benign than some organic pesticides, showing that it;s inaccurate to say that organic pesticides are better for the environment. Sometimes they are, and sometimes they are not. The paper itself is really great, deserving of its own post (see Organic pesticides arent necessarily more sustainable than synthetic by Colby Vorland), but I;d like to talk about the organic-conventional divide. Normally I don;t approve of thoughts in scientific journal articles that aren;t immediately related to the research, too often authors stray into questionable territory. But Christine;s thoughts here are immediately related to her findings, and her results may indicate that big changes are necessary in the way we think about farming. Separating out ;organic; as defined by the USDA may be beneficial in the short term for farmers that have transitioned to certified organic methods who can then charge a premium, but in the long term, the 







Document Number: 6521
to pests has&nbsp;benefited&nbsp;even non-transgenic corn, a new study led by scientists from the University of Minnesota shows. The study, published in the Oct. 8 edition of the journal Science, found that widespread planting of genetically modified Bt corn throughout the Upper Midwest has suppressed populations of the European corn borer, historically one of corn;s primary pests. This areawide suppression has dramatically reduced the estimated $1 billion in annual losses caused by the European corn borer, even on non-genetically modified corn. Bt corn, introduced in 1996, is so named because it has been bred to produce a toxin from the soil bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) that kills insect pests. Corn borer moths cannot distinguish between Bt and non-Bt corn, so females lay eggs in both kinds of fields, said the study;s chief author, University of Minnesota entomology professor William Hutchison. Once eggs hatch in Bt corn, young borer larvae feed and die within 24 to 48 hours. Because it is effective at controlling corn borers and other pests, Bt corn has been adopted on about 63 percent of all U.S. corn acres. As a result, corn borer numbers have also declined in neighboring non-Bt fields by 28 percent to 73 percent 







Document Number: 4927
on one grain as their primary food source (the conclusions of the paper are after the cut). Simply introducing a varied diet, fortified foods, or supplements would solve malnutrition, but these are not options for poor populations in areas with unstable governments. They need a self sustaining way to improve the food that is available to them (i.e. that doesnt need additional monetary input). The simplest or most obvious way to solve malnutrition, then, would be to improve the crops that the people eat. For those people who eat only maize or rice, a change in the nutritional profile of the grain would have a huge effect. Traditional breeding has been less than successful, and can take decades before a noticeable difference is achieved. Some improvements are not even possible with traditional breeding, if the desired trait does not exist in the gene pool of the species. Enter genetic engineering. Humans now have the capability to improve the nutritional profile of a plant by adding genes that code for the desired trait. One example is the famed golden rice. Rice contains no beta-carotene, the precursor of vitamin A. Vitamin A deficiency is the leading cause of blindness in children, and 







Document Number: 5449
(or less, I suppose) their farm can make if they transition to organic, given their specific situation. If you take the course, let me know what you think. The Rodale Institute does a lot of good work, although I am frustrated by their nonscience views on quite a few topics, including raw milk and genetic engineering. The whole technology-is-evil schtick is less than productive, but many organic techniques are productive. I used to have a very negative view of organic because of their rejection of science, but Tomorrow;s Table by Pamela Ronald changed my views. She explains that reduction of chemical inputs and impact on the environment can be best achieved with a combination of organic techniques and careful application of genetic engineering. Buying organic doesn;t necessarily mean ;I think GMOs are evil; but it does mean ;I don;t want to eat pesticides, and am looking for a change.; Thanks to Dr. Cornelia Butler Flora of NCRCRD for pointing this course out to ISU;s Sustainable Agriculture students. The course overall is a good introduction to what organic is and its benefits. Not unexpectedly, I do have a few critiques (as well as compliments); The course includes a too brief history 







Document Number: 813
the first talks of the morning at 8 am, because they were about transposons. The rest of the day was filled with poster presentations, talks about online genetic resources, and a discussion of gene annotation. Anastasia was there with me, and she;ll have all sorts of good stuff to talk about as we give the 51st MGC the exposure it deserves! Transposons are really neat. Also known as Mobile Genetic Elements, Transposable Elements, or just ;jumping genes,; they are sequences of DNA that are capable of popping out of a chromosome and inserting themselves into another. The most well known kind of transposon contains a gene that encodes for an enzyme called Transposase, which physically chops the transposon out of the DNA strand it is in, and puts it in another. The result is a gene that does not remain in a fixed location, and ;jumps; around the genome from Chromosome to chromosome, turning other genes on and off if it inserts in them or near them. Transposons were first described in Maize, by the famous Cornell biologist Barbara McClintock, and are thought of as some of the source of genetic variations that fuel evolution. Sometimes they can incorporate bits 







Document Number: 2709
you read this, it might seem that I am turning the facts around. Please remember that I;m just trying to fill in the other half of the story. If I was to write a paper on the possible effects of GM crops, I would include information on both positive and negative effects. I understand that it isn;t Greenpeace;s goal to provide both sides of the story, but they really should, if they want to help consumers make good decisions. Instead, they are only providing half of the story, as well as half truths and some outright lies, and effectively telling people what to think, instead of responsibly spreading information. No matter your views, this is just wrong! If you;d like to know more details about any of these points, or if you would like to see some peer-reviewed research to back anything up, just let me know in a comment. On to the response! There is growing scientific evidence that GE crops are harmful to biodiversity and the environment. Where is this evidence? Strangely, no specific examples are given. Furthermore, once GE crops are released into the environment they cannot be recalled. As living organisms they can reproduce and pollute 







Document Number: 4144
Governor of Georgia, Sonny Perdue gave a speech positioning Georgia as a future center for biotech research. It was his state of Georgia, however where those infamous stickers disparaging evolution could be found ; Cobb County to be precise. In 2004, his statement for a ;balanced; approach to teaching evolution ; where it is not taught as ;fact.; Apparently he wants the benefits of a thriving biotechnology industry in his state without supporting the bedrock of modern biology in his state;s high school science classrooms. It seems that Florida is not the only state where the living is contradictory! The star of the lunchtime diversion from our food, however, was Elton John. With music awards too numerous to list, and a prominent role in the fight against HIV and AIDS, he delivered an impassioned speech in which he said that we are losing. Not only have we not been able to completely stop the spread of the disease on a biological level, but the primary ground that we are losing on is the social level. Although his speech was not about plants, it was excellent and I would like to share a portion of it: I recorded the last ten 







Document Number: 5814
to Yield. You can read the whole thing here , and the press release is here . Of course, as the title of the report suggests, Gurian-Sherman did not explicitly conclude that GE crops have not decreased yields ; he concluded that GE crops did not increase yields significantly. At face value, it seems like a reasonable conclusion, one that follows from my understanding of the GE traits that are currently grown: mostly herbicide tolerance and pest resistance. In the case of herbicide tolerance in corn and soy, Gurian-Sherman concluded that the trait did not increase yields, while progress in plant breeding continues to do so. Also fairly reasonable-sounding is his conclusion that pest resistance from Bt crops did increase yield slightly ; increasing yield by about 3-4% since its introduction in 1996. I have yet to delve into how he makes these determinations, you can expect another post from me on this report down the road. (Especially since Gurian-Sherman has been saying elsewher e that Bt contributed 4-5% ; which is it?) But as far as the press release is concerned, it is leaving out crucial information ; Bt corn has allowed (slightly) higher yields to be grown with 







Document Number: 4944
posted a Global Agriculture Information Network (GAIN) report titled, The Unexplored Potential of Organic-Biotech Production. This report should have been accompanied by a clear statement that the report does not represent the policy of the United States Government, and given this, the report has been removed from the agencys Web site. It should be noted that USDAs National Organic Program regulations exclude the use of genetically engineered organisms in organic production. Additionally, FAS has no role in the administration of the National Organic Program. ; It turns out that there was a resounding negative response from certain organizations that do not like genetic engineering ; and the very thought of organic + biotech is disconcerting. It led to a pile of emails sent in the USDA;s direction. The Organic Consumer;s Association told a whopper when they first heard about it: This USDA report attempting to make the case for ;organic genetically engineering; is part of a well-funded campaign coordinated by Monsanto and their governmental, corporate, and non-profit partners to legitimize a dangerous and untested technology. First of all, USDA employees are very careful about their contacts. Secondly, according to GE opponents, Monsanto is all about the chemicalz. So why would 







Document Number: 6754
after our discussion with Jeffrey Smith, a few more people signed up to comment! Last week, we passed the 2,000 comment mark, in far less time than it took to get to the first kilo-comment. Let;s keep it going! One of the things that we hope to build here is a community of people of all stripes, spots, and other allelic combinations who feel comfortable discussing issues in genetics and agriculture despite their disagreements. And hopefully coming out of that we may find that we have fewer disagreements than we started with. We try to put a face and words to the people who run and write the blog, and those who send in contributions ; but there hasn;t been much of an opportunity to learn more about our regular readers and commentators, and for you to learn about each other. One of the things that makes this blog different is that we want people to discuss what we write about, and discuss what they want to write about, too. Just as we try to show how multidimensional we are, so too is everyone who sticks around on this blog. So to expand our possibilities, I;m happy to announce that 







Document Number: 1863
online information (journal articles and web pages), I generated a network on Genetic ID and the firm;s connections to a complexity of actors and institutions. The resulting network outlines what is clearly a convoluted network of bias ; both politically and theologically ; against GE and GMO. With the recent Triffid issue,Genetic ID has stood to reap significant financial benefits through testing revenues (I should qualify this ; - ; the company is ;presumed; to have gained financially). Updated network diagram. Connections between Genetic ID and other organisations involved in anti-GMO activity or related food industry activities. Diagram by Cami Ryan, click for larger image. Please note, Jeffrey Smith of ;Seeds of Deception; fame is at the centre of this network. Also, the Maharashi (Transcendental Meditation ;TM; yogi) and his affiliated interests and institutions are also central. Most of the organizations and several of the individuals are from Fairfield, Iowa where the Maharashi University is centred. The Maharashi is a proponent of Vedic Science (look it up, weird stuff) and established the Natural Law Party whose platform revolves around the Vedic Science and TM. The Natural Law Party has branches in the US and in New Zealand. This work is 







Document Number: 5940
the phone. The series is called Student Veterans Come Marching Home . He wrote two articles: Their Return to Studies and A New GI Bill for Scientists . The interviews are in the first, while the second discusses the ;21st Century GI Bill;. Beryl Benderly wrote Taken for Granted: Over Here , an article that suggests that science careers might be appropriate for veterans. The article and companion podcast do a good job of explaining how difficult the transition to student from service can be. I;m pleased with the article and especially tickled that Mr. Kotok included a link to Genetic Maize. I am bashful to have been quoted on quite a few subjects, including the closing statement. I;ve posted the text of the article below the cut, but you may want to visit the website to view pictures of the veterans. Student-Veterans Come Marching Home: Their Return to Studies Alan Kotok United States 6 June 2008 F ive years ago, Sgt. Sarah Neyer was serving in the U.S. Army in Iraq. In the fall, she;ll start a Ph.D. program in mechanical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Neyer is one of many veterans of the current 







Document Number: 731
to use them. On the other hand, he has a small but growing group of organic farmers who claim that biotech crops will ;destroy their ability to farm organically;. He;s looking for coexistence between both types of farmers. At this time, coexistence between organic and conventional farms is worked out individually by neighbors. On a national scale, organic groups have initiated multiple lawsuits against the USDA in what some say are blatant attempts to prevent biotech crops from being grown at all ( sugar beets , alfalfa ). In an effort to solve the problem, a creative potential solution has been devised ; partial deregulation of biotech alfalfa. This would ;include isolation standards from other crops, set geographic restrictions on where the crop is grown, spell out harvest periods and regulate equipment use,; writes Charles Abbott on Check Biotech . One problem with this plan is that the USDA might be overstepping its regulatory authority . The USDA is charged with determining the potential pest status of any biotech crops submitted for deregulation, but doesn;t have requirements or authority to say what farmers can and can not do with a crop once it is deregulated. Today, this issue is being 







Document Number: 7797
weather hasn;t been much friendlier elsewhere. Farms in places as diverse as Australia and the Philippines aren;t off to a good start. The most sobering quote from the article: Last year, the rice crop in Arkansas yielded a record 160 bushels an acre. This year, experts there say, 150 bushels will be an achievement. Theres no doubt about it, were not going to have the rice to export, said Carl Frein of Farmers Marketing Service in Brinkley, Ark. Poor countries like Haiti, I dont know what theyre going to do. Randy Kron (photo from NY Times ) is an Indiana corn and soy farmer who won;t be able to plant this year. The article follows his story of fields that are too wet to plant. He concludes I dont know if this is the worst year weve ever had, but its moving up the list pretty quick.; A lot of the comments on the post are typical: too many people don;t research or think before typing. One, though, had a different perspective. I really like reading what real farmers think, especially because they tend to be more optimistic and solution oriented than the doom and gloom Malthusians. One commenter who 







Document Number: 5478
and the summer is just beginning. After all this rain, late summer droughts are predicted (just when the grain and beans will be maturing). A lot of farmers planted late or still haven;t planted. By the time the corn is silking, corn rootworm beetles will be ready to eat the silks, decreasing pollination and thus yield (in good years, silking is already in progress when rootworm reaches adulthood). The crops could be hit by toxin-producing fungus, rendering the grain poisonous even for feed (perhaps it could still be used for biofuels?). This is a big problem for me personally, since I have 7000 corn seeds that still need to be hand planted. It was too cold and now it;s too wet. We;re in the process of making contingency plans for the growing season, knowing that we;ll have a lot of pests to deal with. If I loose these plants, my experiments could be set back multiple years. Other graduate students here haven;t been able to get to their fields to take measurements or samples for a variety of experiments. The complaints of graduate students are small compared to those of farmers. I can;t even imagine what it must feel like 







Document Number: 4360
from 10 am-12 pm U.S. Eastern Standard Time (-5 GMT), which will be 9-11 am in the U.S. Central time zone where I am. Here are the panelists that will be appearing in the webcast: Dr. Nina V. Fedoroff; Science and Technology Advisor to the Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and to the Administrator of USAID Rajiv Shah. Author of ; Mendel In The Kitchen ; Bio here . Dr. Robert Paarlberg , Wellesley College. He is the Betty Freyhof Johnson Class of 1944 Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College and Associate at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University. Author of: Starved for Science: How Biotechnology is Being Kept Out Of Africa . Bio here . Dr. Calestous Juma , Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Professor of the Practice of International Development. Director, Science, Technology, Globalization Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Bio here . Mark Cantley , former Advisory in the Directorate for Biotechnology, Agriculture and Food, of the Directorate-General for Research of the European Commission, and formerly head of the OECD;s Biotechnology Unit. Bio here . Frank Sesno, moderator, Director of the School of Media and Public Affairs at The George Washington University, 







Document Number: 1022
these changes will affect their lives. Scientific discoveries such as the electron, genetics, the age of the Earth, and technologies from the steam engine to the hand-held computer have changed and improved our lives and where we see ourselves in the Universe. But as scientist continue to shine light into the dark corners of the world in search of basic truths and their application to our lives, they are sometimes met with resistance. And as research accelerates and discoveries are made at a rapid pace, it can seem like an insurmountable deluge of information. Change is an important part of this process. New ideas, approaches, and discoveries change the way we look at things. New technologies change the way we do things. And fear of change is often a major reason why the culture pushes back against science and its achievements. But there are many more factors involved, such as perceived benefits, whether these changes require altering deep-seated emotional or philosophical factors, and campaigns to support or oppose them. But one final important factor is knowledge ; it is easy to fear something if you do not understand it. There are many contentious areas of science today, some are more 







Document Number: 8923
products, as a way to increase sales to consumers fearful of the genetic engineering process. The problem is that the term GMO is misused and misunderstood. Take, for example, a recent story on Voice of America about a new rice variety my laboratory and collaborators recently developed that is tolerant of flooding. The producer made a valiant effort to explain how we generated the new variety: The new strain is genetically improved, but not genetically modified, so is not subject to tight controls on genetically modified foods. Does anyone know what is he talking about? I do, so please let me explain. Breeders have a 8000 year history of genetic modification (also called genetic improvement or conventional breeding)- that is, they have modified the genome of crop species in a number of ways. Such conventional breeding methods include hybridization (transfer of pollen from one plant variety to another to generate new seed with genes from both parents), mutagenesis (in which chemicals or irradiation are used to induce random mutations in DNA) and embryo rescue (where plant or animal embryos produced from interspecies gene transfer are placed in a tissue culture environment to complete development). Today, everything we eat has been 







Document Number: 1014
2010. ISBN 10: 0 13 700610 1 ISBN 13: 978 0 13 700610 6 Patrick Westhoff is an experienced agricultural economist who has provided a reasonable book about the complex topic of food economics. It makes a change from heated discussions of food politics and the often one-sided discussion in many books about genetically manipulated food. Most of the book will be of interest to readers of GM Pundit. It covers topics such as the 2008 biofuel boom, the links between water availability and grain prices, and financial&nbsp; speculation on food commodity prices. Taken together with another book ; Food Politics by Robert Paarlberg ; we now have a reasonable accessible scholarly discussion of the whole context surrounding the debate about genetically manipulated foods. A brief quote below shows the style of the Patrick Westhoff text and it;s accessibility: The 2005-2009 Experience The growth in biofuel production between 2005 and the middle of 2008 was nothing short of amazing. In the United States, for example, ethanol production more than doubled in less than three years (Figure 1.1). A rapidly increasing share of the U.S. corn crop was devoted to ethanol production, and this limited the amount of grain available to 







Document Number: 3297
that you attend the department seminars for the donuts and/or pizza no matter what the topic is. I have to say, though, that the seminars from this lab made the donuts and pizza a little less appealing. One of the students of the lab defended his thesis work during this time frame. He was a terrific speaker who made us understand the medical and economic burdens of these parasites on the impoverished communities he studied. Somehow he managed to make the story of sample collection amusing. And the details of the discovery of his own infection (after a very hot curry meal) made that defense one of the most memorable during my career in science (Figure 1, right. Speaker and his infectious agent) . But I still remember the scientific point: these infections have real impacts on the humans and the agricultural animals that live in close proximity to them in the developing world. And that there appear to have been separate and distinct infections in humans and in pigs in the studies they performed . Until recently I hadnt thought much about the roundworms. But this week when this paper came across my desk, I was glad to see 







Document Number: 7776
to move past it. Let me know what you think. Agricultural biotechnology could encourage so-called factory farming, with its attendant use of chemicals and monoculture, destroying nature beyond the point of recovery. Or, agricultural biotechnology could help lessen the environmental impacts of farming, helping us to feed, fuel, and clothe a growing population while maintaining or even improving the natural world. These opposing scenarios, with their attending cries of horror and exclamations of success, have been the basis for the debate over agricultural biotechnology. The opponents and proponents of agricultural biotechnology are both right, this issue is of grave importance for humanity. Both sides of the debate can agree that food security is going to be one of the most important issues in the twenty first century. Global population is expected to reach seven billion in 2012, with more than one third of that in the developing world. These areas already see overwhelming hunger and malnutrition, and increasing population will only exacerbate the problem. Allowing this to continue is ethically unacceptable to most people. In the past, improvements in agriculture, such as the Green Revolution, have increased crop yields enough to keep pace with population, but that may no longer 







Document Number: 1529
corporations, fear of science, and fear of the unknown are wielded as weapons to scare the public into rejecting the use of this technology for crop improvement. One of the most recognizable terms used to instill fear is the label ;Frankenfood.; Images crop up of a monster that;s not supposed to exist, a mad science experiment gone wrong with parts taken from dead bodies, an abnormal brain, lightning, and the cackling of human hubris echoing in a castle. It lurks in your corn chips, and the pumpkins you use to make your homemade pies. Once humble grains and vegetables, wrested from the Laws of Nature will haunt your supermarket and terrorize your neighborhood! It sounds heinous. It sounds disgusting. It sounds sensationally inaccurate, in fact one could write a whole book on how mythical this label is when it comes to describing genetic engineering. Actually, one has ! Splicing together DNA and inserting it into a plant to achieve a desired trait is nothing akin to reanimating a dead person during an electrical storm. Nevertheless, the word continues to be used merely because it conjures reviling images of human eyeball sandwiches, and carnivorous killer tomatoes on the loose. (It also 







Document Number: 5162
as being one of very few perennial crops, which means it can be left in the field to grow year after year and keep being harvested. It;s roots can grow quite deep so it can be very drought tolerant. It produces a high quality forage for animals, and is especially great for dairy cows. One problem with alfalfa is that, as it is left to grow for multiple years, weeds can accumulate and the alfalfa stand will need to be plowed under. Weeds can be controlled to some degree with harvesting at just the right time (before the weeds make seeds) but at some point that isn;t enough. Enter Roundup Ready alfalfa which can be sprayed with the herbicide glyphosate to control weeds while leaving the alfalfa healthy. It allows farmers to leave their alfalfa stands standing longer. The sky is falling; ok, not really Groups like Food Democracy Now are urging people to sign petitions against the deregulation of RR alfalfa, claiming it will ; fundamentally undermine the entire organic industry overnight ; (emphasis theirs). These petitions are being promoted by some pretty heavy hitters, including Michael Pollan . He tweeted: Time to weigh in: the USDA is about 







Document Number: 7093
Hopefully, this small change will lead them to fight for larger changes, but if they aren;t fighting for the changes that actually affect the health of their children, do all their efforts do any good? ;The half-pint of nonfat chocolate milk with sucrose served to students at lunch will have 150 calories and 27 grams of sugar ; the same caloric and sugar content as the old formula,; according to Schools switch sugars in chocolate milk in the San Fransisco Chronicle. From the same article: Switching from high-fructose corn syrup to sucrose in the chocolate milk is nonsense, said Dr. Robert Lustig , a pediatric endocrinologist at UCSF. It;s not how the sugar is made that;s the problem, he said ; it;s that Americans, and especially kids, are eating too much sugar, period. ;The difference between high-fructose corn syrup and sucrose, molecule for molecule or ounce for ounce, isn;t worth discussing. They are both equally dangerous,; Lustig said. If you choose not to believe Dr. Lustig, check out Rule # 4 from Michael Pollan;s recent Food Rules, or more importantly, check out the text explaining the rule (emphasis added): Avoid products that contain high-fructose corn syrup. Not because high-fructose corn 







Document Number: 3387
in 2005. Renee Dufault, the lead author, described how she obtained samples of high fructose corn syrup and tested them for mercury. When she went back for more samples, her employer (the FDA) asked her to switch to a different project, so no more tests have been conducted. We can only hope that increased funding for the FDA will result from the recent elections and in response to the many recent threats, particularly peanut butter ! Renee has offered to discuss her experiment, her interactions with the FDA, and her reaction to the IATP report. I heartily agree with her call for more testing, but extend the call beyond mercury to include other contaminants, chemical and biological. I also agree that removing mercury from our environment should be top priority, but still feel that mercury exposure from coal-burning power plants is far more dangerous due to quantity than mercury from chlor-alkali plants. However, it certainly couldn;t hurt to switch chlor-alkali plants over to newer (non-mercury) technology! To answer your question, ;Why couldn;t one of them, or one of their grad students, continue the work?; The samples collected under my direction at the FDA were collected by an FDA field investigator 







Document Number: 7941
has leveled off. According to a new study, that;s because breeders and researchers have reached the limit of how much grain the wheat plant can produce. ;In the 50 years of breeding history, we;ve essentially almost doubled our genetic potential for yield,; says wheat geneticist Bob Graybosch with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the lead author of the new study in the journal Crop Science . Unfortunately, Graybosch says, ;There;s got to be an upper limit on how much they can do, and it maybe looks like we;re approaching that upper limit.; ;The farmers that are growing dry-land wheat may see the same yields from now on,; he says. ;They may not see increases in yield under dry-land conditions because we simply are shuffling the same genetic deck out there.; Robert A. Graybosch and C. James Peterson Genetic Improvement in Winter Wheat Yields in the Great Plains of North America, 1959-2008 doi:10.2135/cropsci2009.11.0685 Crop Science 2010 50:1882-1890 Abstract: Data from USDA-coordinated winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) regional performance nurseries collected over the time period 1959 to 2008 were used to estimate genetic gain (loss) in grain yield, grain volume weight, days to heading, and plant height in winter wheats adapted 







Document Number: 5648
and ready to greet the world. Then I check my twitter feed (as all plants should). This morning I was in for a bit of a shock ; and I don;t mean from the cold morning air. Andrew Kimbrell, the dude who runs the Center For Food Safety, just typed up some opinions about genetically engineered crops like me. In The GMO Reality Check , and it was published in Organic Connections Magazine. I must say that I was quite shocked at some of the things he said, especially about genetics: Faulty Science Theres a very good reason we havent seen these promises come about, Kimbrell explained. The theory behind genetic engineering, which is the understanding of what a gene is and what a gene is not, has changed dramatically over the last decade. The idea that DNAand particularly the part of DNA that we call a gene, which is a little above 1.5 percent of DNAsomehow controls traits is now not scientifically valid. Today most major scientists realize that DNA is not an actor, but is acted upon . There are millions of what are called epigenetic markersvarious proteins and chemicalsthat control how DNA is expressed in the cell. 







Document Number: 3646
on my head, a laptop with an exhausted battery and the television running an infomercial led me to the conclusion that I closed my eyes for a minute while eating dinner and drifted off to sleep. Fumbling with the remote, I clicked through a few middle-of-the-night stations. Theres a vibrating weight to firm womens arms. Click. A guy with a tie on a news station says that climate change is a hoax. Click. A woman on the next channel lost fifty pounds in a month eating just cookies. Click. A former playboy playmate says that vaccines are dangerous. Another channel has a person claiming evidence that the terrorist attack on 9-11 was an inside job. I turn off the television, put on my jammies and head off to bed, my dog Stinkie following behind. The claims of kooks go in one ear, rattle around for a moment and then leave out the other. We are bombarded with junk science, all the time, every day. I dont get mad, I consider the source and let it go. They have an agenda, they have to appeal to viewers, and if subscribing to anti-science or abject untruth is their method then so be 







Document Number: 1889
With the US Census showing more than 308 million people, there is curiosity about how many people there are in the world. The current estimate of 7.5 billion is forecast to grow to nine billion by the middle of the century. They will be hungry and will need to be fed with food that very few of them can produce for themselves. Somewhere, global food production will have to increase 70% to 100% in the next 40 years. You may not have to worry about that but the younger generation on today;s farm;s will be involved with the care and feeding of nine billion hungry people. How are they going to do that? The number of people expected in the global community is irrelevant, but what is a serious question is how will food production double in the next 40 years, given the challenges to food production that we have today? You are trying to grow corn for livestock, fuel, and export. It is the same for soybeans, and other grains. The challenge that today;s young farmers will have revolves around water, land use, yield increases, environmental regulations, and a myriad of other significant policy issues. Where is the starting 







Document Number: 9730
to understand why normal weeds (the Jimmy Olsens and Lois Lanes of the plant world) die. &lt;; last superhero reference of this post I promise. Plants are not like people. The list of differences goes on and on, but today the difference we;re concerned about is where amino acids come from. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins, the same way Adenine (A), Thymine (T), Guanine (G) and Cytosine (C) are the building blocks of DNA. Both our bodies and plants (and almost every other living thing) use the same twenty amino acids to build proteins. Our bodies can make ~12 of the twenty animo acids for themselves, but there are at least eight amino acids that the human body cannot produce (called essential amino acids). Our only source of these amino acids is from protein in our food. It;s all well and good for us to get amino acids from our food, but plants don;t eat. They;re made of pretty much nothing more than water, sunlight and air. And trust me, none of those things are a good source of protein. Unlike us, plants have to be able to make all twenty amino acids from scratch. That means 







Document Number: 1390
in this area. Reuters has just published a list of the big six, for your perusal: Monsanto Co ( MON.N ) ; Based in St. Louis, the company posted record net sales of $11.7 billion and net income of $2.1 billion for fiscal 2009. Among its key products are corn, soybeans and cotton that tolerate weed-killing treatments and resist pests. Pioneer Hi-Bred ; Subsidiary of DuPont ( DD.N ) based in Johnston, Iowa. Produces, markets and sells hybrid seed in nearly 70 countries worldwide and is the closest rival to Monsanto for market share in U.S. biotech corn seed market. Revenue totaled $4 billion in 2008. Syngenta AG ( SYNN.VX ) ; The Basel, Switzerland-based company operates in 90 countries and generated 2008 sales of $11.6 billion. Collaborating with International Rice Research Institute to improve rice. Dow AgroSciences ; Subsidiary of Dow Chemical Co ( DOW.N ) based in Indianapolis, Indiana. With global sales of $4.5 billion, company offers insect-protected corn and cotton, among other seed products, and is expanding its research into wheat. BASF ( BASF.DE ) ; Based in Ludwigshafen, Germany, this leading global chemical company is increasingly focusing its health and nutrition division on plant biotechnology to 







Document Number: 2846
is usually shiny. The opposite of things that are natural or organic, technology is entirely human-derived and artificial-looking. Of course, what this obscures is what a technology really is, and that is applied knowledge . According to Wikipedia , Technology is a broad concept that deals with an animal species; usage and knowledge of tools and crafts, and how it affects an animal species; ability to control and adapt to its environment. Certainly GE crops are a form of technology. But some other things in agriculture that count as technologies include: Organic growing methods, biologically-derived pesticides, manure, and using animals to plow fields. Heck, the horse-drawn plow itself was a technological breakthrough for its time! Our lives are interwoven with technology ; and I;m not just talking about people who can;t go anywhere without their iPods. People are born, live, eat, drink, breathe, and cheat death for years because of technology. Without it, there would be very few people on this planet. And although many, including myself, like to take vacations away from most of our technology to relax, very few want to actually be stranded in the wilderness for the rest of their lives without it. And if we 







Document Number: 3640
all sorts of farmland and not much visible biodiversity outside of that. If you live in certain areas of the south, it;s really actually very similar. There are lots of rowcrops; peanuts and soybeans instead of corn and soybeans but still a similar concept. Lots of crops. Everything;s green and pretty without a whole lot of biodiversity. There;s one other major difference, though;lots of areas look like this: Image courtesy of Wikipedia Commons The green curtain draped over everything? Kudzu. Kudzu was a vine originally planted to control erosion which grew out of control. It grows quickly, is hard to kill and covers everything with a green blanket and crowds everything out by keeping sunlight from reaching the plants. The trees under that green carpet are all dead. So; how can things get worse? Simple, really; just introduce something which lives on kudzu. In 2009, a graduate student at the University of Georgia;s department of entomology found a very odd insect which resembled a beetle, but wasn;t. It had sucking mouthparts and a bunch of other features which landed it in a group of insects called the Heteroptera. The problem is that the insect wasn;t able to be identified with 







Document Number: 5145
journal, of a report thoroughly debunking the 1998 paper that began the vaccine-autism scare. says Michael Willrich, a professor of history at Brandeis University in todays NYT Similarly, according to Dr Oz, the TV host, papaya genetically engineered with a snippet of a mild strain of a virus to make it disease free, causes infertility. This in face of overwhelming evidence from peer-reviewed studies that the papayas, which have been consumed for 15 years and have been embraced by farmers as the most appropriate method to control the deadly papaya ringspot virus, are safe to eat. In contrast, to GE papaya that carry trace amounts of a mild strain of the virus, conventional or organic papaya are chalkfull of the virus. How should such papaya be labeled? It is the same story for GE cotton, a cotton engineered with a certified organic insect control agent called BT. The GE cotton is thriving with half the amount of insecticide, yet many still view it with suspicion. And vitamin A fortified rice has yet to reach the poor who need it because of concerns that the fortification was added with genes rather than synthetic chemicals that has been the norm for many 







Document Number: 3678
read the news a few weeks ago I was at first puzzled, and then inspired. Jim Riddle, Organic Outreach Coordinator for the University of Minnesota, wrote an article for the Rodale Institute outlining 10 reasons why genetic engineering is incompatible with organic agriculture . This is one of the issues that we tackle quite often here at Biofortified. So here are his ten reasons: 1. Basic science. Humans have a complex digestive system, populated with flora, fauna, and enzymes that have evolved over millennia to recognize and break down foods found in nature to make nutrients available to feed the human body. GMO crops and foods are comprised of novel genetic constructs which have never before been part of the human diet and may not be recognized by the intestinal system as digestible food, leading to the possible relationship between genetic engineering and a dramatic increase in food allergies, obesity, diabetes, and other food-related diseases, which have all dramatically increased correlated to the introduction of GMO crops and foods. 2. Ecological impact. Organic agriculture is based on the fundamental principle of building and maintaining healthy soil, aquatic, and terrestrial ecosystems. Since the introduction of GMOs, there has been a dramatic 







Document Number: 9535
of trade imbalances and currency wars, but nothing about Nigerian palm oil. That;s a shame, because the bank;s loans for plantation agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa and other developing regions some $132 million of which have gone to palm oil cultivation have been humanitarian and economic triumphs. Yet now, under misguided pressure from environmental groups, the bank is turning its back on the program. Palm oil, which is extracted from the pulp of the oil palm, is an essential food in sub-Saharan Africa and other poor regions. Accounting for almost 40 percent of the world;s vegetable oils, it is an indispensable source of vitamins and calories. The developing world is heavily reliant on palm as a source of nutrition because the plant thrives in tropical climates and yields significantly more fats and calories than other options. It gives the developing world where hundreds of millions of men and women still live on a few dollars a day the most caloric bang for the buck; But the bank;s legacy of success is now in serious jeopardy. Under the leadership of Robert Zoellick, a former United States trade representative, the bank has wavered from its poverty-reduction mission and is increasingly focusing on achieving 







Document Number: 9959
with record attendance for this annual event, about 500 students, faculty, and community members. Tonight;s lecture is part of a week long series of events celebrating the legacy of Norm Borlaug and looking to what we can do to solve hunger in the US and across the world. Many World Food Prize Laureates have been scientists, and scientists are undoubtedly important in developing new crop varieties and new methods that can produce more food with fewer inputs, particularly for small famers. This year;s Laureates have a new message to share. As David Beckmann pointed out during his talk, great scientists are important, but it also takes groups like Bread for the World and Heifer International to organize and mobilize people to help. This year;s Laureates share a message of hope and inspiration. David Beckmann David Beckmann is the President of Bread for the World and President of The Alliance to End Hunger . He starts his talk with a positive note: there have been stunning changes for the better, including large reductions in child mortality due to hunger. Countries with reduced poverty include diverse countries like Brazil, Bangladesh, and Great Britain. Their successes show that it is possible to reduce 







Document Number: 1677
apple slices, but they certainly don;t look nice, which discourages some people from eating as many apples as they should. Apples are a healthy snack and anything that gets people to eat more fruit could be considered beneficial. Like it or not, sliced apples that don;t brown are in demand. Many children and some adults have hard time biting into whole apples. In addition, there is much convenience in being able to eat one slice at a time, no matter where you are. Some companies are producing sliced apples treated with a chemical solution to keep them from browning, and you can find them in some schools and in places like McDonald;s and Subway restaurants, but that has its own complications , including what some say is an off-taste and additional plastic waste. A Canadian company has developed apples that won;t turn brown, which has the potential to solve this problem and get more people eating an apple a day. In this post, I;ll discuss the chemistry behind browning and the science behind non-browning fruits and vegetables. The enzymatic reaction that turns apples brown within minutes is a major problem for home cooks and professional chefs alike. Just Google how 







Document Number: 7930
Smith MULTIPLYING the world;s population by its consumption of food does not equal a healthy planet ; the multiplication result is not balanceable or sustainable, according to Dr. Jason Clay, senior vice president at the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). ;We need to use less to produce more ; to restore the planet,; he said in remarks to the Cattle Industry Summer Conference last month in Denver, Colo. He was one of three speakers who addressed beef production;s environmental footprint (Feedstuffs, Aug. 9). Clay laid out a scenario in which the world;s increasing population forces more and more habitable land into agricultural/food production every year and said this ;has to be changed, and we can do that by intensification.; He noted that in 40 years, the world;s population will increase 33% ; from almost 7 billion people today to more than 9 billion ; incomes will triple and food consumption will double. Clay said 70% of the world;s population will live in cities, and ;we need to address this; because the ;impacts; people and food production/consumption have on the land and water ;that are acceptable today with 6.8 billion people will not be acceptable with 9.1 billion people.; ;We will have 







Document Number: 3209
Shiva endorses criminal arson as direct action against scientific laboratories she disproves (explicit video interview). Now Greenpeace  by their own self-acknowledged vandalism  are following Vandana Shiva (Sydney Peace [sic] Prize recipient) into the cesspool of criminality. . Greenpeace destroys GM wheat Jessica Nairn, ABC Radio 666 Canberra Updated July 14, 2011 11:08:36 Greenpeace protesters have broken into a CSIRO experimental farm in Canberra to destroy a crop of genetically modified wheat. In the early hours of this morning a group of Greenpeace protesters scaled the fence of the CSIRO experimental station at Ginninderra in the capitals north. Greenpeace says activists were wearing Hazmat protective clothing and were equipped with weed string trimmers. They say the entire crop of genetically modified wheat has been destroyed. About half a hectare of GM wheat is being grown on the site, as part of Australias first outdoor trials. No genetically modified wheat strain had ever been approved for cropping in Australia before. Last month the CSIRO received permission to conduct Australias first trial in which humans will eat GM wheat. The wheats genes have been modified to lower the glycemic index and increase fibre to create a product which will improve bowel 







Document Number: 3402
at last some gold. Fishy smelling gold. A new paper has been kindly unearthed in the comments by (a commenter): Genetically modified plants as fish feed ingredients by Nini Hedberg Sissener, Monica Sanden, shild Krogdahl, Anne-Marie Bakke, Lene Elisabeth Johannessen, and Gro-Ingunn Hemre (2011). Abstract: Genetically modified (GM) plants were first grown commercially more than 20 years ago, but their use is still controversial in some parts of the world. Many GM plant varieties are produced in large quantities globally and are approved for use in fish feeds both in Norway and the European Union. European consumers, however, are skeptical to fish produced by means of GM feed ingredients. Concerns have been raised regarding the safety of GM plants, including potential toxicity and (or) allergenicity of the novel protein, potential unintended effects, and risk of horizontal gene transfer to other species. This review will present the current state of knowledge regarding GM plants as fish feed ingredients, focusing on fish performance and health as well as the fate of the GM DNA fragments in the fish, identifying limitations of the current work and areas where further research is needed. And then commentator Allan goes to town interpretating this paper. Many 







Document Number: 7172
coli contaminated fenugreek seeds originating in Egypt which have been implicated in several different outbreaks of severe pathogenic E. coli infections occurring these last weeks in Germany, France, and Sweden (see several other recent GMO Pundit Posts). To quote from the European food safety authoritys website: A trace back investigation is the method used to determine and document the distribution and production chain, and the source(s) of a product that has been implicated in a food-borne illness investigation. A trace forward investigation aims to find the distribution of the suspected food products along the food chain from the origin in the direction of the consumer. Using this approach for this investigation, at each step of the delivery/production chain identified in the trace back, further investigation was initiated to try and account for all seeds in any suspect lots. The objective was to identify critical lots and their current location. To this end, detailed information on each lot of seeds was established for each step of the delivery/production chain back to the importation into the EU. The comparison of the back tracing information from the French and German outbreaks leads to the conclusion that lot # 48088 of fenugreek seeds imported 







Document Number: 8077
Dr. Oz, Jeffrey Smith, and the AAEM. Here is an example of the claims made in the piece. Between the U.S. and European countries, which has more instances of food allergies? Which has more instances of asthma or autism? Which has more instances of cancer and heart disease? Yes, I understand many factors play a role in these distinctions. However, I think it would be unwise to ignore the relation between the introduction of GM foods and higher instances of food-related allergies. Do you honestly believe major corporations care more about the health and safety of the public over their ability to make a profit? His words only got a brief mention, and his response is a model for how scientists should respond to these kinds of claims. We have received permission to republish his spot-on commentary. (He has asked that I obscure the name of the young reporter who wrote the column so that it is about the information and not the person. So only the name has been edited.) Enjoy! Column regarding genetically modified foods was one-sided and misinformed This authors column on Genetically Modified (GM) foods is a thinly-veiled hatchet job, repeating a mixture of half-truths, lies 







Document Number: 3622
opposition to nuclear power and GM products globally. Focus instead on the conditions where these technologies become acceptable: safe, economic, free of patent control by a few companies, and effectively regulated. (Charles Secrett, ex FOE, 2011). In the Pundits experience, and sincere opinion, many members of Friends of the Earth (FOE) are often the most principled and honest of the opponents of genetic technology. In short, they are wonderful human beings and a pleasure to meet. This open letter reproduced below is a welcome example from Charles Secrett of what FOE is truly capable of. Charles Secrett now joins my list of outstanding and courageous honest environmentalist heroes, up with Stewart Brand, Mark Lynas and Patrick Moore. He is yet another ecopragmatic turq (see tags below for the meaning of these adjectives). Enlace: Amigos de la Tierra se queda sin liderazgo real  pero an les hace falta *** An open letter to the green movement Charles Secrett guardian.co.uk, Tuesday 21 June 2011 13.51 BST Last week, Charles Secrett argued that 40 years after the birth of the modern environment movement, it has turned into an unwieldy behemoth and its tactics have stalled. This prompted criticism that he is out 







Document Number: 2779
look to some like a conspiracy, but we also realized that it would be far too expensive to track the great rivers of grain well enough to be able to label everything accurately. Practicality won the day and GMO foods were never labeled. 15 years later this decision is still being needlessly debated. Why You Cant Really Track All Grain It does not normally make sense for a farmer to have his/her own harvesting equipment. There are custom, contract harvesters who move from South to North during the harvest season. There are always some grains left in the harvester as it moves from field to field. The grain is then hauled to local elevators which are used to store grain. They only have a few silos which end up containing grain from dozens to hundreds of fields. Segregating the GMO portion of the crop is not possible at this stage. To ask this system to segregate and track GMO is absurd. It is much more practical to identity preserve the small amount of non-GMO crop. That also usually involves paying a price premium. A May Contain Label Might Have Been A Better Choice I actually supported the idea of a 







Document Number: 3165
need to empower the very people whose lives are most affected by food shortages. Three-quarters of the worlds poorest people get their food and income by farming small plots of land. The potential of small farmers for getting us out of this and future food crises cannot be overstated. Today, we find that millions of lives depend upon the extent to which agricultural science can keep pace with the growing global population, changing climate, and shrinking environmental resources  and the extent to which this science is available to millions of the worlds poorest farmers. Few people will argue with the idea that we need to grow more food. World economic and agricultural leaders have projected that the human population will surpass 9 billion by 2050, and 10 billion by the turn of the century. And they have forecast that we must double or even triple food production to meet demand. Yet, already 40 percent of the earth is farmed (an area the size of South America). The amount of arable land is limited and what is left is being lost to urbanization, water shortages, erosion, and environmental degradation. Farmers are so pressed for space in many parts of the 







Document Number: 617
to El Bosco We live in a world where whole organisations make comfortable incomes by demonising technology. These self-styled technology critics early successes included active blocking of the use of irradiation to make food safe or years. This largely unused technology is based on using electrons or radioactively generated gamma rays to kill germs. Eleven years ago the German government vetoed the use of such radiation based technology to make food safe to eat in the EU. Odd that they should do this given that its a widely used and successful tool to avoid deadly infections during modern surgical operations. It could have prevented the ghastly current E. coli sproutbreak in Germany that has killed 44 and has condemned near 900 people to coping with the vile aftermath of HUS  which include kidney transplants or a lifetime of being hooked to dialysis machines. [It could also have prevented a second outbreak of sprout promoted lethal disease from the same E. coli strain now taking place in France.] The next success of technology-critics was delaying and stymieing introduction of beneficial GMO foods. In this case the damage is felt mainly in developing countries. Damaging consequences of this include hundreds of 







Document Number: 4094
emerging from the frantic work of the DNA sequencing teams and the crowdsourced intense detective work by bioinformatics experts (all mentioned in several previous posts at this site) to assemble a broad picture of how the German outbreak germ has evolved in recent years in terms of changes to its overall chromosome structure. The bottom line is this: the strain is roughly 75% conservative genes and 25% radical genes. Its the newly arrived radicals that do the damage. Kat Holt has presented in very visual terms her analysis of all the DNA decoding made public by several life-science workers and various corporations in Germany, USA, China, France and Britain. She has just made this available at backpathgenomics blog. Her latest work summarises DNA decoding data obtained on four different bacterial strains. It is similar to the picture sketched out by the BGI sequencing group when they released their fully analysed DNA data recently  but much easier for most people to understand because of the colourful graphics. One of her graphics is displayed above, but there are more detailed larger scale pixs of the individual chromosomes at her blog. The set of compared germs include two strains analysed in Germany, 







Document Number: 9574
Aspergillus genus contains a number of species that are beneficial and harmful to humans. (Creative Commons licensed Image via zgr Bayram and Gerhard Braus) GMO Pundit just been highlighting gene movements occurring naturally among bacterial species  the so called horizontal gene movements (HGT). But with the extensive decoding of the DNA of numerous organisms that has taken place this last 5 years or so, many more instances of gene movement between species are turning up. Fungi turn out to be no exception when it comes to such movements. Vanderbilt University Jumping Gene webpage published earlier this year has a dramatically colourful news story about gene movement in fungi: Since the days of Darwin, the tree of life has been the preeminent metaphor for the process of evolution, reflecting the gradual branching and changing of individual species. The discovery that a large cluster of genes appears to have jumped directly from one species of fungus to another, however, significantly strengthens the argument that a different metaphor, such as a mosaic, may be more appropriate. The fungi are telling us something important about evolution  something we didnt know, said Antonis Rokas, assistant professor of biological sciences at Vanderbilt. He and 







Document Number: 4868
eating GM bread that has never been proven safe, according to Greenpeace. Greenpeace have lately been rattling the can about CSIROs proposed trials of GM wheat that have altered starch characteristics. Part of the proposal to the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator was for possible human feeding trials, which they especially didnt like. As part of what Greenpeace say is just the beginning of a concerted push to oust any GM wheat from Australia and elsewhere in the world  research trial or otherwise, they yesterday released a report, Australias wheat scandal: the takeover of our daily bread. They certainly didnt pull any punches in their criticism of CSIRO and other research organisations such as the Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics. Is the criticism justified? I thought I had better check it out. In trying to get a handle on the actual CSIRO research, I have spoken to CSIROs Dr Matthew Morell, Theme Leader, Future Grains, Food Futures Flagship, who headed the research into the GM wheat with altered starch characteristics. I go into more detail about this wheat as we go and at the end. First the Greenpeace report. If I was to go through every part 







Document Number: 1050
us feel ill and can be tough to beat. HIV, H1N1, Papaya Ringspot Virus ; it;s hard to find anything good to say about the little pseudo-living things. So it comes as no surprise that when people hear that scientists sometimes use DNA from viruses to genetically engineer crops, they get scared. Viral DNA in food? How nefarious! Well, not really. The most common piece of viral DNA in GE crops is the 35S promoter from the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus. Promoters are like ;on switches; that tell the cell when and how strongly to express or ;turn on; a gene. The 35S CaMV promoter is a very well-described one that tells the cell to always leave the light on. Though part of those inserted genes came from a virus, it doesn;t make viruses of any kind. Another way you might find viral DNA involved in genetic engineering is in developing virus resistance. A protein that coats the Papaya Ringspot Virus was engineered into Papayas to block where the virus attaches to the cell and prevent infection. Later on, as we started to understand more about some really cool aspects of genetics, it was discovered that the viral gene that was 







Document Number: 7085
much as those produced by conventional methods, and people are shelling out their hard-earned cash for what they believe are the best foods available. So Wilcox looks at organic?s four most common myths and includes scientific cites for her claims: Myth #1: Organic Farms Don?t Use Pesticides Organic farming, just like other forms of agriculture, still uses pesticides and fungicides. There are over 20 chemicals commonly used in the growing and processing of organic crops that are approved by the U.S. Organic Standards. Organic pesticides are those that are derived from natural sources and processed lightly if at all before use. Organic pesticides are not all safe. In fact, some might actually be worse than the ones used by the conventional agriculture industry. Myth #2: Organic Foods are Healthier Some people believe that by not using manufactured chemicals or genetically modified organisms, organic farming produces more nutritious food. However, science simply cannot find any evidence that organic foods are in any way healthier than non-organic ones ? and scientists have been comparing the two for over 50 years. Myth #3: Organic Farming Is Better for the Environment People seem to believe they?re doing the world a favor by eating organic. 







Document Number: 5313
time, the world?s agricultural system will be increasingly challenged by water scarcity and climate change, raising the risk of production shortfalls in a world where over 800 million people are already undernourished. A challenge like this can be met through biotechnology, innovation, and appropriate agricultural development and trade policies. At the State Department, we are working to encourage countries to think proactively about the role technology can play in addressing food security and climate change and about its strong potential as an engine of economic growth. Unfortunately, the lack of science-based regulations in many countries discourages innovation and adaptation and creates barriers to trade. Assistant Secretary of State Fernandez at the Gordon Institute of Business Science Biotechnology has created an array of tools to improve agricultural productivity, efficiency and nutrition over the last decade, from tissue culture to marker-assisted selection to genetic engineering, and concurrently reduced agriculture?s environmental footprint. It offers great potential to help developing countries reduce crop losses due to pests and disease, increase the nutrient content of crops and mitigate the effects of climate change. This is particularly relevant in Sub-Saharan Africa, where agriculture models have indicated that by 2050, average rice, wheat, and maize yields will 







Document Number: 9760
growers in 29 countries), people need to be better informed about food production, so they can form opinions based on facts, not fear. Producing Safe Food for Nearly Two Decades The safety of biotech-derived food products has been thoroughly addressed by the international scientific community. The world?s top scientific authorities ? such as the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the World Health Organization, the National Research Council of the National Academies of Sciences, the American Medical Association and the American Dietetic Association and the regulatory authorities for each of the products have concluded that foods with biotech-derived ingredients pose no more risk to people than any other food. In fact, a National Academies of Science study concludes: Genetic engineering is one of the newer technologies available to produce desirable traits in plants and animals used for food, but it poses no unique health risks that cannot also arise from conventional breeding and other genetic alteration methods.? Biotech crops have been cultivated for more than 15 years, and foods derived from agricultural biotechnology have been eaten by billions of people without any significant health problems. Government Regulation Under the Coordinated Framework Biotechnology products in the United States are regulated more 







Document Number: 7771
too busy planting crops here in Iowa. Commoners have to work for a living, after all. But I did find the time to read the text of his remarks. As I made my way through his address, the Prince of Wales turned me into the prince of wails?I wanted to howl in anguish over this man?s bizarre views of agriculture. The prince loves organic food, which is fine. But he?s wrong to think it can save the world because it?s so inefficient. A recent study by Steve Savage points out that if all farming in the United States went organic, we would need to add an amount of new cropland almost equal to the size of Spain to make up for the lower yields. This is the very definition of ?unsustainable?. Who is this guy to lecture anybody on sustainability? Prince Charles flew to the United States on a private jet and traveled around Washington, D.C. with an armada-sized motorcade. As a reporter for the Washington Post noted puckishly, the engine of his SUV was left running while he was inside Georgetown?s Healy Hall. Prince Charles was of course fresh from the lavish wedding of his son Prince William to 







Document Number: 3841
tool that holds great promise for alleviating hunger and poverty. However recent concerns about genetically modified crops may curtail their widespread use. Transgenic Plants and World Agriculture, a new white paper issued by a working group of seven national science academies, including five from the developing world, examines the potential for genetically modified crops to assist developing countries, and the issues that need to be addressed. [News release] Biotechnology at Work Farmers have been battling pests for centuries, using everything from conventional plant-breeding techniques to chemicals such as pesticides and herbicides. But because of environmental and health concerns, the development of new chemical treatments has declined in recent years. Now scientists are using the tools of advanced molecular biology to endow plants with genes that help them resist pests. Although breeding practices have been used for years to develop crops with desirable traits, scientists can now pinpoint genes from similar species -- or even from completely unrelated organisms -- and transfer those protective genes into crops. What are genetically modified foods? How prevalent are they? How are they regulated? The U.S. Department of Agriculture answers frequently asked questions. The University of Wisconsin provides a glossary of terms. Like most significant 







Document Number: 1127
labels. 1. Is biotechnology less safe than other plant breeding techniques? No. Biotechnology is safe. It is a refinement of breeding techniques that have been used to improve plants for thousands of years. Biotechnology is simply a more precise science, so scientists are able to isolate a specific gene to make exact changes to a crop (for example, to make a corn plant resistant to the corn borer insect.) Scientists around the world agree that the risks associated with crop plants developed using biotechnology are the same as those for similar varieties developed using traditional breeding methods. 2. Are foods derived from biotechnology as safe to eat as foods produced using conventional crops? Yes. Federal regulatory agencies ensure the safety of biotechnology foods, and biotech plants and foods are among the most tested in history. The ultimate scientific authorities recognized in this country, such as the National Research Council of the National Academies of Science, the American Dietetic Association2, the American Medical Association, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization5 have concluded that foods with biotech-derived ingredients pose no more risk to people than any other foods. Biotech crops have been cultivated for more than 







Document Number: 7831
this science to grow plants that yield more per acre with reduced production costs while being resistant to disease and pests and also beneficial to the environment. In the near future, well see crops that will be resistant to environmental stresses like drought, and crops that use soil nutrients more efficiently, boosting productivity in areas of the world with inadequate rainfall or poor soil. Scientists are also looking to use biotechnology to fortify some food plants with higher nutritional content and to produce pharmaceuticals in plants affordably and efficiently. Contributing to Sustainable Agriculture Farmers are enthusiastically embracing this technology, especially corn, cotton and soybean varieties, according to USDA. This growing trend is expected to continue, especially at a time when the United States and the world are looking for science-based solutions to rising food and fuel prices. Agricultural biotechnology can help farmers feed the world's growing population, while minimizing impacts on the global environment. In 2007, 12 million farmers in 23 countries  12 developing and 11 industrialized  planted biotech crops, primarily soybeans, corn, cotton and canola. Eleven million of these farmers worked small, resource-poor farms in developing countries. Biotech crops  most of which are currently disease-resistant, pest-resistant 







Document Number: 5800
Management Practices (BMPs) the state adopted in lieu of passing legislation that would ban or place other restrictions on agricultural biotechnology. Although BIO generally agrees with the BMPs, the organization points out the need to dispel myths about biotechnology crops as well as ensure that the BMPs are science-driven, realistic and potentially serve as a set of principles other states can emulate. BIO recommended that state officials take a closer look at the U.S. Department of Agricultures guidelines for biotechnology, rules that could settle some thorny issues, such as farmer certification and a 300-foot buffer for certain crops. BIO applauds the legislature and the departments vision in establishing BMPs to help increase comfort levels among growers in the state who may use different production practices, OConnor said. We are glad that the Maine Department of Agriculture, Food and Rural Resources is clearly embracing this concept through the well-developed BMP effort, he said. We agree that BMPs are a much more useful way to ensure that agricultural producers communicate more with their peers, rather than onerous and business-inhibiting regulation. BIOs testimony addresses two major points. First, the BMPs must contain references to the USDAs National Organic Programs rules for certification. The 







Document Number: 1182
to use more herbicides because weeds have developed resistance to glyphosates, and that makes farmers wary, according to the Rhode Island-based center, a nonprofit organization that promotes organic products. Real-world farm statistics counter the report, says Sharon Bomer Lauritsen, executive vice president for food and agriculture at BIO. U.S. farmers have adopted many genetically engineered crops  such as soybeans, cotton and corn  deploying them widely since their introduction in 1996 because of the value they bring. Biotechnology allows farmers to boost crop yields and agricultural productivity. Theres no doubt that farmers continue to embrace biotechnology because of the benefits these products deliver, specifically crops that yield more per acre with lower production costs while using farming practices that better protect the land and environment, she says. Driving Up Productivity According to research from the U.S. Department of Agriculture on the first decade of genetically engineered crops in the United States, the productivity gains can result in higher income for farmers. As found in the USDA report, The First Decade of Genetically Engineered Crops in the United States, herbicide-tolerant cotton and corn were associated with higher economic returns, as were insect-resistant cotton and corn when pest infestations were more 







Document Number: 9101
tool that holds great promise for alleviating hunger and poverty. However recent concerns about genetically modified crops may curtail their widespread use. Transgenic Plants and World Agriculture, a new white paper issued by a working group of seven national science academies, including five from the developing world, examines the potential for genetically modified crops to assist developing countries, and the issues that need to be addressed. [News release] Biotechnology at Work Farmers have been battling pests for centuries, using everything from conventional plant-breeding techniques to chemicals such as pesticides and herbicides. But because of environmental and health concerns, the development of new chemical treatments has declined in recent years. Now scientists are using the tools of advanced molecular biology to endow plants with genes that help them resist pests. Although breeding practices have been used for years to develop crops with desirable traits, scientists can now pinpoint genes from similar species -- or even from completely unrelated organisms -- and transfer those protective genes into crops. What are genetically modified foods? How prevalent are they? How are they regulated? The U.S. Department of Agriculture answers frequently asked questions. The University of Wisconsin provides a glossary of terms. Like most significant 







Document Number: 173
labels. 1. Is biotechnology less safe than other plant breeding techniques? No. Biotechnology is safe. It is a refinement of breeding techniques that have been used to improve plants for thousands of years. Biotechnology is simply a more precise science, so scientists are able to isolate a specific gene to make exact changes to a crop (for example, to make a corn plant resistant to the corn borer insect.) Scientists around the world agree that the risks associated with crop plants developed using biotechnology are the same as those for similar varieties developed using traditional breeding methods. 2. Are foods derived from biotechnology as safe to eat as foods produced using conventional crops? Yes. Federal regulatory agencies ensure the safety of biotechnology foods, and biotech plants and foods are among the most tested in history. The ultimate scientific authorities recognized in this country, such as the National Research Council of the National Academies of Science, the American Dietetic Association2, the American Medical Association, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization5 have concluded that foods with biotech-derived ingredients pose no more risk to people than any other foods. Biotech crops have been cultivated for more than 







Document Number: 7867
this science to grow plants that yield more per acre with reduced production costs while being resistant to disease and pests and also beneficial to the environment. In the near future, well see crops that will be resistant to environmental stresses like drought, and crops that use soil nutrients more efficiently, boosting productivity in areas of the world with inadequate rainfall or poor soil. Scientists are also looking to use biotechnology to fortify some food plants with higher nutritional content and to produce pharmaceuticals in plants affordably and efficiently. Contributing to Sustainable Agriculture Farmers are enthusiastically embracing this technology, especially corn, cotton and soybean varieties, according to USDA. This growing trend is expected to continue, especially at a time when the United States and the world are looking for science-based solutions to rising food and fuel prices. Agricultural biotechnology can help farmers feed the world's growing population, while minimizing impacts on the global environment. In 2007, 12 million farmers in 23 countries  12 developing and 11 industrialized  planted biotech crops, primarily soybeans, corn, cotton and canola. Eleven million of these farmers worked small, resource-poor farms in developing countries. Biotech crops  most of which are currently disease-resistant, pest-resistant 







Document Number: 1323
Management Practices (BMPs) the state adopted in lieu of passing legislation that would ban or place other restrictions on agricultural biotechnology. Although BIO generally agrees with the BMPs, the organization points out the need to dispel myths about biotechnology crops as well as ensure that the BMPs are science-driven, realistic and potentially serve as a set of principles other states can emulate. BIO recommended that state officials take a closer look at the U.S. Department of Agricultures guidelines for biotechnology, rules that could settle some thorny issues, such as farmer certification and a 300-foot buffer for certain crops. BIO applauds the legislature and the departments vision in establishing BMPs to help increase comfort levels among growers in the state who may use different production practices, OConnor said. We are glad that the Maine Department of Agriculture, Food and Rural Resources is clearly embracing this concept through the well-developed BMP effort, he said. We agree that BMPs are a much more useful way to ensure that agricultural producers communicate more with their peers, rather than onerous and business-inhibiting regulation. BIOs testimony addresses two major points. First, the BMPs must contain references to the USDAs National Organic Programs rules for certification. The 







Document Number: 7515
to use more herbicides because weeds have developed resistance to glyphosates, and that makes farmers wary, according to the Rhode Island-based center, a nonprofit organization that promotes organic products. Real-world farm statistics counter the report, says Sharon Bomer Lauritsen, executive vice president for food and agriculture at BIO. U.S. farmers have adopted many genetically engineered crops  such as soybeans, cotton and corn  deploying them widely since their introduction in 1996 because of the value they bring. Biotechnology allows farmers to boost crop yields and agricultural productivity. Theres no doubt that farmers continue to embrace biotechnology because of the benefits these products deliver, specifically crops that yield more per acre with lower production costs while using farming practices that better protect the land and environment, she says. Driving Up Productivity According to research from the U.S. Department of Agriculture on the first decade of genetically engineered crops in the United States, the productivity gains can result in higher income for farmers. As found in the USDA report, The First Decade of Genetically Engineered Crops in the United States, herbicide-tolerant cotton and corn were associated with higher economic returns, as were insect-resistant cotton and corn when pest infestations were more 







Document Number: 1222
food production by 70 percent. That number jumps to 100 percent in developing countries, where farmers are more adversely affected by climate change. The need for biotechnology to help offset climate change came to light in December at the climate talks in Copenhagen, when U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack released a report entitled The Effects of Climate Change on U.S. Ecosystems. The USDA report identifies the following trends: Grain and oilseed crops will mature more rapidly, but increasing temperatures up the risk of crop failures, particularly where precipitation decreases or becomes more variable. Horticultural crops such as tomatoes, onions and fruit respond to climate change to a greater degree than grains and oilseed crops because of the high sensitivity of their quality and appearance to climate factors. Livestock mortality will decrease with warmer winters. However, this will be greatly offset by higher mortality in hotter summers. Hotter temperatures will also result in reduced productivity of livestock and dairy animals because of changes in consumption and lower reproduction pregnancy rates. Weeds will grow more rapidly under elevated atmospheric CO2, extend their range northward and be less sensitive to herbicide applications. Disease and pest prevalence will escalate as a result of shorter, 







Document Number: 4369
Stewardship with 100 international scientists and government officials in the audience of the 7th Transgenic Animal Conference, Tahoe, Calif. Why is a stewardship program important to those working in research and development with GE animals? Stewardship is the initiative and processes undertaken by product developers in industry, academia and other groups, to increase their control over and responsibility for the conduct of practices. Todays landscape for GE animal technology includes many issues that drive public confidence and acceptance. These include the continuing GMO debates, the animal welfare concerns about GE technology, and concerns on ethics, social, religious issues. But the landscape also includes cutting edge science, strong regulatory processes, and best of all, the promise of compelling benefits of GE animals including advancing human health, enhancing food quality and safety, softer environmental footprint, enhanced animal health and welfare, and improving industrial products. By adopting a stewardship approach, we may minimize the negative issues and optimize the positive issues. The mission of BIOs Stewardship Initiative is to institute and promote guidelines for the development and use of GE animals, which promote good animal welfare and comply with current regulatory requirements. BIO Guidance is meant to be valuable to all who are 







Document Number: 2595
must neither rest on past accomplishments nor retreat from new challenges. At last years BIO International Convention, I sketched a bold vision of what I believed the industry must achieve: Greater access to our innovative medicines, at lower prices. Improvements in drug safety, ultimately at lower cost. The continued advancement of the agricultural revolution. The growth of renewable energy with low or near-zero carbon footprints. And a cleaner environment. The industryand BIOwitnessed major strides toward achieving these lofty goals over the past year and are today on a trajectory to make even greater advancements in the year to come. And there is still much to do. Thanks in no small part to BIOs world-class advocacy team, major FDA legislation passed that provides resources to strengthen post-market safety. We made the case against raising Medicaid rebates and hastily enacting poorlyreasoned comparative effectiveness legislation, and we pressed for major energy legislation that tripled the mandate for renewable biofuels. Our tenacity on the regulatory front was rewarded by FDAs long-awaited risk assessment fi nding that food derived from cloned animals is safea major step forward for this technology. The coming year will bring even more opportunities for BIO to showcase the importance of 







Document Number: 7153
or animals; or develop microorganisms for specific agricultural uses. Modern biotechnology today includes the tools of genetic engineering. Allergen: A substance, usually a protein, that can cause an allergy or allergic reaction in the body. Allergy: A reaction by the body's immune system after exposure to a particular substance, often a protein. Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt): A soil bacterium that produces toxins that are deadly to some pests. The ability to produce Bt toxins has been engineered into some crops. See Bt crops. Biopharming: The production of pharmaceuticals such as edible vaccines and antibodies in plants or domestic animals. Bt crops: Crops that are genetically engineered to carry a gene from the soil bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). The bacterium produces proteins that are toxic to some pests but non-toxic to humans and other mammals. Crops containing the Bt gene are able to produce this toxin, thereby providing protection for the plant. Bt corn and Bt cotton are examples of commercially available Bt crops. Chromosome: The self-replicating genetic structure of cells, containing genes, which determines inheritance of traits. Chemically, each chromosome is composed of proteins and a long molecule of DNA. Clone: A genetic replica of an organism created without sexual reproduction. 







Document Number: 1242
trade problems with the European Union (EU), China and Korea, and to multilateral discussions in the Codex and the World Trade Organization (WTO). The House Biotechnology Caucus recently invited United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Robert Zoellick to meet with them to discuss trade problems with the EU. USTR has raised the possibility of initiating WTO dispute settlement proceedings against the EU regarding new product approvals. For a long time, BIO has been calling attention to the need for a comprehensive, long-term strategy for dealing with biotech trade issues. The Administration has now recognized the need for such a strategy; a USTR strategy paper was recently distributed to interested agencies for consideration. The USTR approach is reportedly consistent with BIO's recommendations in most respects. The paper lays out an aggressive strategy that should bring coherence to U.S. policy and allow the U.S. to make much better use of available tools for addressing issues. One potential problem: food company representatives are concerned by reports that USTR may be recommending compromises with the EU on labeling. Essential elements of an effective trade strategy are as follows: Lifting the EU moratorium on new product approvals. The EU has maintained for nearly four years 







Document Number: 5550
too busy planting crops here in Iowa. Commoners have to work for a living, after all. But I did find the time to read the text of his remarks. As I made my way through his address, the Prince of Wales turned me into the prince of wails--I wanted to howl in anguish over this mans bizarre views of agriculture. The prince loves organic food, which is fine. But hes wrong to think it can save the world because its so inefficient. A recent study by Steve Savage points out that if all farming in the United States went organic, we would need to add an amount of new cropland almost equal to the size of Spain to make up for the lower yields. This is the very definition of unsustainable. Who is this guy to lecture anybody on sustainability? Prince Charles flew to the United States on a private jet and traveled around Washington, D.C. with an armada-sized motorcade. As a reporter for the Washington Post noted puckishly, the engine of his SUV was left running while he was inside Georgetowns Healy Hall. Prince Charles was of course fresh from the lavish wedding of his son Prince William to 







Document Number: 7362
the report, Global Status of Commercialized Biotech/GM Crops: 2010, details the ongoing proliferation of biotech crops as the agricultural community continues to realize the benefits. Perhaps most encouraging: Developing countries are among the leaders when it comes to adopting biotech agriculture. In 2010, according to the report, biotech crop area grew 10 percent. That figure represents 34.6 million acres of farmland, bringing total acreage worldwide for GM crops to 366 million acres. The nonprofit ISAAA shares knowledge about crop biotechnology to educate the global community about the attributes and potential of new agricultural technologies. They have tracked global biotech crop trends since the first uses of these crops in 1996. The 2010 ISAAA report proves once again that the global adoption of biotech crops  especially corn, soybeans and cotton  is on the rise as more and more farmers gain access to this beneficial technology, says Sharon Bomer Lauritsen, BIOs executive vice president for food and agriculture. Agricultural biotechnology provides solutions for todays growers in the form of plants that are more environmentally friendly while yielding more per acre, resisting diseases and insect pests, and reducing farmers production costs. In the Developing World Moreover, in the past year, biotech 







Document Number: 317
George Washington Carver Award for innovation in industrial biotechnology. A panel selected the Royal DSM CEO for leading his company's efforts to promote bio-based products over those relying on fossil-fuel resources. Sijbesma will receive the award and deliver a keynote address during a May 9 plenary lunch session at the BIO World Congress on Industrial Biotechnology & Bioprocessing. The conference is being held at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre. "I am truly honored to receive the 2011 George Washington Carver Award for contributing to the progress and innovation of the industrial applications of biotechnology," Sijbesma said. "I am convinced that in the coming decades biotechnology will have an enormous contribution in addressing the worldwide issues around health, nutrition and environment." The award is named after Carver, one of the founding fathers of the chemurgy movement, a branch of applied chemistry focused on preparing industrial products from raw agricultural materials. Biotechnology is the modern-day equivalent, and the award honors individuals for carrying on Carvers legacy. "The field has developed in ways that Carver may never have imagined, but the work of industrial biotech companies remains true to the goal of a sustainable bio-economy," says Brent Erickson, executive vice president of BIO's 







Document Number: 8073
United States, you may have concerns and questions regarding these crops. Here are some short answers to some FAQs. If you wish to learn more, click on the links on the left to explore Bt. FAQ What is Bt? Does Bt harm monarch butterflies? Is Bt safe in my food? Why use Bt? Is Bt safe for the environment? What is a crystal protein? How is use of Bt regulated? What are some Bt concerns? Where is Bt used? What is the future of Bt? What are Bt proteins? Bt stands for the naturally occurring bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis. Bt lives in the soil and is found all over the world. Some types of Bt produce a protein crystal that is toxic to insects. These protein crystals have been used in organic farming for over 50 years to control insects. The genes producing these proteins are now engineered so that plants can make the protein in their cells. Learn more about Bt What is a protein crystal Are Bt proteins safe in my food? Bt has been found to be safe to all mammals, birds, and fish. Bt is very selective and is only toxic to specific insects. Resources: EPA Bacillus 







Document Number: 4078
the Warangal District. Three or four farmers we met have abandoned their non-Bt crop in the face of very severe pest infestation, though this was a low-pest pressure year. Rain fed crop allows only two pickings while the irrigated crop provides for at least three pickings. The acreage of each farmer varied from one to five, though a few cultivate 10 acres or more. Not being properly guided and not being sure of what to choose, in the face of several Bt varieties, the farmers planted a different variety on each acre, in the hope of choosing the best for the next year. Almost no one planted a refugium. Three pesticide sprays being the norm, one did not spray any pesticide at all, while one sprayed eight times in an anxiety to ?provide greater protection to the crop?. Untimely rain damaged the crop in several places in the District. There were problems of germination, some varieties were susceptible to virus disease or the grey mildew and there was a higher incidence of jassid and white fly in some areas. They expect an income of Rs. 6,000 (rain fed) to 10,000 (irrigated) per acre and seemed satisfied with it. Some farmers 







Document Number: 8179
Ranga Agricultural University of AP., the Officers at the District Office of the Government Department of Agriculture, Warangal and the dealers of Seeds and Pesticides, Warangal. 1. Andhra Pradesh State Seed Certification Agency, Hyderabad The Seed Certification Agency of the Government of AP is totally out of the picture as Bt cotton seed was not officially notified. Certification of any seed is voluntary and no one applied for certification of Bt cotton seed. While there are facilities with the Agency for testing genetic purity including the Bt event, most of the time seed certification is confined to seed viability and germination studies. Only six to eight parental lines, some imported from Russia and Cambodia, seem to be involved in the production of over 200 cotton hybrids in the country. With no information on the pedigree of most of these varieties, there appears to be some confusion in understanding and distinguishing varieties and hybrids. 2. Scientific Officers of the Agricultural Research Station, of the Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University of AP, at Warangal The Scientific Officers of the Agricultural Research Station, ANGRAU at Warangal, informed us that public institutions did not go all out to recommend Bt cotton, nor spoke against 







Document Number: 938
going bad in the cultivation of Bt cotton. Reports of phenomenal failure of Bt cotton, farmer distress, death of sheep, death of cattle and alleged farmer suicides have show cased the Warangal District as an example of all that could go wrong with modern agriculture. Anti-tech activism has extrapolated all this to the other parts, in and out of AP, such as Vidharbha region of Maharashtra. A rational and scientific assessment does not support such an intensely negative outcome from Bt cotton cultivation. To assess the ground realities first hand, Professor Ronald Herring, Cornell University, Ithaca, Dr S Shantharam, Biologistics International, of USA, and I, have visited the Warangal District for about a week in the middle of December 2006. Before going to Warangal, we visited the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture (CSA), Hyderabad/ Secunderabad and the Andhra Pradesh State Seed Certification Agency, Hyderabad, for a first hand assessment of opinions and reports. Centre for Sustainable Agriculture (CSA) The CSA are the main anti-Bt cotton activists in AP. The two functionaries of CSA we met raised the following issues against Bt cotton: a) Economical and technical features not up to the mark: What is the mark and whose mark? There is 







Document Number: 4739
the Telegraph, last week, Prince Charles sensationally accused ?gigantic corporations? of meddling with nature and urged them to spare the world the cataclysmic repercussions that might arise from genetic modification of crops. Prince Charles? rantings against GM crops, however, have come under harsh criticism from government officials, politicians, the media and scientists for their ludicrous tinge. British Environment Minister Phil Woolas has challenged Prince Charles to provide evidence to the effect that genetically modified crops are a disaster. Woolas, in an interview with the Sunday Telegraph, affirmed that the government had a ?moral responsibility? to investigate whether GM crops could help alleviate hunger in the developing world.? And the minister warned the Prince of Wales not to politicize the issue of GM crops. Alison Smith, Professor of Plant Biochemistry at the John Innes Centre in Norwich, accused Prince Charles of ?inflating fears instead of contributing to reasoned debate.? ?He (Prince) seems to be ranting about GM crops, urbanisation, globalisation and even hybrid plants. He is inflating fears instead of contributing to reasoned debate.? The Times, in an editorial, said Prince Charles? views on genetically modified crops were ?ill-informed, alarmist and anti-science.? ??his apocalyptic predictions of the effect of genetically modified 







Document Number: 5010
susceptibility to disease) and mortality worldwide. These deficiencies affect particularly children, impairing their immune systems and normal development, causing disease and ultimately death. The best way to avoid micronutrient deficiencies is by way of a varied diet, rich in vegetables, fruits and animal products. The second best approach, especially for those who cannot afford a varied diet, is by way of nutrient-dense staple crops. Sweet potatoes, for example, are available as varieties that are either rich or poor in provitamin A. Those producing and accumulating provitamin A (orange-fleshed sweet potatoes) are called biofortified*, as opposed to the white-fleshed sweet potatoes, which do not accumulate provitamin A. In this case, what needs to be done is to introduce the biofortified varieties to people used to the white-fleshed varieties. Unfortunately, there are no natural provitamin A-containing rice varieties. Rice plants produce -carotene (provitamin A) in green tissues but not in the endosperm (the edible part of the seed). The outer coat of the dehusked grainsthe so-called aleurone layercontains a number of valuable nutrients, e.g. vitamin B and nutritious fats, but no provitamin A. These nutrients are lost with the bran fraction in the process of milling and polishing. While it would be 







Document Number: 9873
Biofortificationthe creation of plants that make or accumulate micronutrientshas the potential to reduce the number of deaths significantly. The aim of biofortification is to improve the primary food source of hundreds of millions of people by increasing the nutritional quality of staple crops. Golden Rice is a good example of a biofortified crop. In this specific case biofortification was obtained by genetic modification of the rice plant to produce and accumulate provitamin A in the grain, a trait not found in nature. This feat was accomplished by Ingo Potrykus, professor emeritus of the Federal Institute of Technology, Switzerland, and Professor Peter Beyer of the University of Freiburg, Germany, in the late 1990s and has been in development ever since. In developing countries 500,000 people, mainly children, become blind every year, 50 percent of which die within a year of becoming blind. Nearly nine million children die of malnutrion every year. VAD severely affects the immune system, hence it is involved in many of these children's deaths in the guise of a multiplicity of diseases. Recently, malaria deaths in children under five years of age has been linked with deficiencies in intake of protein, vitamin A and zinc (Caulfield et al., 







Document Number: 7373
of the project, matters of biosafety, and regulatory hurdles. Golden Rice growing in the field and looking like  rice. For general information about rice visit IRRI's Rice Knowledge Bank. Golden Rice Q&A Golden Rice and Vitamin A Deficiency (VAD) Golden Rice is rice that has been genetically engineered to contain beta-carotene and other carotenoids in the endosperm (the edible part of the grain). This gives the grains a golden colour, as opposed to regular white rice, which is practically devoid of carotenoids. When the rice is consumed, some carotenoids are converted in the body into vitamin A. Carotenoids (including beta-carotene) are natural plant pigments and are widely found in coloured fruits, carrots, and green vegetables. Plants do not contain Vitamin A, but only its precursor, provitamin A (beta-carotene). Animals, including man, synthesise Vitamin A from carotenoids eaten in the diet. Hence, animal meat products contain Vitamin A. People living on a poor diet are at risk of becoming vitamin A deficient, which can lead to life-threatening illnesses. Who invented Golden Rice and how did the project start? The inventors of Golden Rice are Ingo Potrykus, Professor emeritus of the Institute for Plant Sciences, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH, 







Document Number: 4914
been to supply pre-school children with 6-monthly oral doses of high levels of vitamin A in solution. Such programs reach only a fraction of the children in need and are not always continued, as the cost, need for education, medical staff and distribution infrastructure present significant logistic problems. Annual costs for a country the size of Nepal or Ghana are in the range of two million dollars (MOST 2004). The real challenges to solve malnutrition in the developing world are poverty, poor infrastructure, lack of education and awareness, and not the lack of existing technology. All these issues are important too, and should continue to be addressed, as they have been for many years. However, solutions to these problems appear to be as far away as ever, and the situation is deteriorating in many places. Golden Rice, in combination with other efficient approaches, could lead to a highly effective, cheap, and simple contribution to the relief of a major health problem. The combination of approaches will depend on the particularities of the region. MOST, USAID Micronutrient Program (2004) Cost analysis of the national vitamin A supplementation programs in Ghana, Nepal, and Zambia: A synthesis of three studies. Why not eat 







Document Number: 7868
needed it most. Syngenta was the inventors preferred partner given the companys expertise in the field of carotenoids, their long standing involvement in joint EU-funded research programs, a track record of donation of such technologies to the developing world, and its long experience in regulatory affairs, licensing and intellectual property. What has Syngenta donated? Syngenta has produced many Golden Rice transgenic events and has identified and selected for donation those with high carotenoid levels and good agronomic characteristics. Seed from these plants and performance data were donated to the Golden Rice Humanitarian Board. In the summer of 2004 Syngenta also conducted field trials of the first three selected Golden Rice events together with two other events generated in the public sector (published by Dr Hoa and co-workers, from the Cuu Long Delta Rice Research Institute in Vietnam). The field trials, which were conducted at Louisiana State University, were undertaken as a contribution to the Humanitarian Board and the Golden Rice Project. The donation is therefore a combination of technology, a full technical dossier, licences to enabling patents, and the best transgenic lines, and reflects the work done by Syngenta and its legacy companies on behalf of their humanitarian interests over 







Document Number: 4341
a public-private partnership created by the inventors in 2000 to assist in the development and deployment of Golden Rice. The humanitarian project is sponsored by HarvestPlus (which in turn is funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the World Bank), the Swiss Development and Collaboration Agency, USAID, and the Syngenta Foundation, together with local research institutes and several non-governmental organizations (NGOs) including the Rockefeller Foundation and the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI). The Golden Rice Humanitarian Board is responsible for the global development, introduction and free distribution of Golden Rice to target countries. The novel trait will be bred into locally adapted rice varieties for regional use. It is intended to introduce it into publicly owned rice varieties via national and international public-sector research institutions. It will then be made available locally, free of charge to resource-poor farmers. These farmers will be able to grow, save, consume, replant and locally sell Golden Rice. Who are the members of the Golden Rice Humanitarian Board? The Humanitarian Board is an honorary body that benefits from the expertise of international authorities, including Prof Ingo Potrykus (co-inventor of Golden Rice), professor emeritus from ETH Zurich, Chairman (public relations and information); Prof Peter 







Document Number: 5976
Syngenta licensed back to the inventors the combined package of enabling intellectual property and agreed to support them administratively in their endeavour to make the technology available to resource-poor farmers in developing countries, free of charge. Terms of use include royalty-free local production by farmers who earn less than US$10,000 annually, which applies so to say to 99% of those farmers. The inventors were also granted the rights to grant sub-licences for the same purpose. Golden Rice is expected to become widely distributed through the farmers own supply and exchange networks. The contractual arrangements will guarantee free access for farmers to the technology. Farmers can keep the seeds for future sowing. This will reinforce seed distribution in a virtuous circle. Have any restrictions been added to the agreement? Instead of a new contract being introduced, a side letter was added to the original agreement. This letter contains certain new conditions that had become necessary, because of the substantial costs of regulation and licensing. Because of the immense costs involved, the Humanitarian Board needs to make sure that just one transformation event makes it through the regulatory process. The selected and approved event can then be cross-bred with any locally preferred 







Document Number: 7586
in 1999 (Ye et al. 2000). In the first field trials conducted in 2004, rice grains from GR1 had carotenoid levels between 4 to 8 micrograms per gram total carotenoid, GR2 went even further, producing up to 23 times more total carotenoid than in the 1999 prototype (Paine et al. 2005). Ye X, Al-Babili S, Klti A, Zhang J, Lucca P, Beyer P, Potrykus I (2000) Engineering the provitamin A (beta-carotene) biosynthetic pathway into (carotenoid-free) rice endosperm. Science 287:303-305. Paine JA, Shipton CA, Chaggar S, Howells RM, Kennedy MJ, Vernon G, Wright SY, Hinchliffe E, Adams JL, Silverstone AL, Drake R (2005) A new version of Golden Rice with increased pro-vitamin A content. Nature Biotechnology 23:482-487. How much Golden Rice is needed to combat VAD? Most people affected by VAD have a so-called sub-clinical vitamin deficiency level. As would be expected, these people ingest some provitamin or vitamin A with their foods, but blood vitamin levels are not high enough to sustain a healthy status. What is needed is a top-up of provitamin A to a healthy level. A GR2 line has been selected with provitamin A levels somewhere between the best GR1 and the best GR2 carotenoid levels obtained. 







Document Number: 6274
investigate aspects of bioavailability and bioefficacy; carotenoid retention trials in rice food preparation (i.e. how much beta- carotene is left after processing, storage and cooking) with various forms of cooking; and tasting trials with trained rice tasters. What could be the economic impact of Golden Rice in Asia? Recent studies suggest significant net economic benefits to countries from the adoption of Golden Rice. These benefits stem from the expected reduction in disease and mortality incidences from VAD, and would by far surpass any adverse economic effects from barriers to exports into countries currently unwilling to import transgenic crops. The economic benefits result from better public health as measured by DALYs (Disability Adjusted Life Years; see Zimmerman and Qaim, 2004) as well as from increased worker productivity (Anderson et al. 2004). The value of health improvements to the Philippine economy are estimated at US$16  88 million per year (Zimmerman and Qaim 2004). Annual net gains in Asia are estimated at US$6.3 billion (China), $2.3 bn (India), and $4.1 bn for the rest of South and South East Asia. Anderson K, Jackson LA, Pohl Nielsen C (2004) Genetically modified rice adoption: Implications for welfare and poverty alleviation. Centre for International Economic 







Document Number: 7680
2006. No adverse effect to humans, animals or the environment have resulted from the growing or consuming of these crops. On the contrary, official reports from Australia, for example, show that pesticide use has been reduced almost 90 percent in the country since the introduction of insect-resistant Bt cotton. It is most desirable that people who are seriously concerned about the risks of transgenic crops express their fears using concrete and solid arguments, in their own interest, because otherwise they might be missing great opportunities without a reason. Factual argumention can be dealt with, either by addressing the perceived problem and making adjustments to the techniques used, or by providing solid data countering those arguments. Very often objections are based on assertions presented as scientific data, even though the underlying experiments have not passed rigorous scrutiny by peers. These preudo-scientific reports are then cited in a circular fashion, and sadly, they spread very quickly and become credo, based purely on them being repeated in numerous fora. This negative attitude has been condemned even by people who once were ardent fighters on that front, like Patrick Moore, one of the founders of Greenpeace. While Mr Moore and we still fight for 







Document Number: 2108
rice grains devoid of the nutrients contained in the outer layers but not susceptible to changes in colour, odour and taste. From bottom left, anti-clockwise: freshly harvested Golden Rice grains; dehusked rice grains; polished rice grains. Parboiled rice Parboiling is a process applied to rice to preserve some of the nutrients contained in the outer grain layers, which are normally lost during polishing (the bran and aleurone layers). After a short hot steam treatment part of the nutrients diffuse into the starchy endosperm, thus enhancing the nutritive qualities of the rice. The treatment results in rice that is slightly yellow, hence some parboiled rices carry the name "Golden Rice", which must not be confused with the one produced by genetic modification, as in the project described on this web site. Because of its golden hue, parboiled rice is called "Golden Rice" in some countries, like the Colombian rice on the picture. While this rice has good nutritional characteristics, mainly due to the presence of soluble vitamins from the B complex, it is different from rice engineered to produce beta-carotene in the endosperm. Clinical Significance of Vitamin A Deficiency Vitamin A is stored in the liver and deficiency of the vitamin 







Document Number: 5306
else. One main reason is that being dependent on a small plot to sustain the livelihood of a whole family the year over, necessarily leads to rice, the same way as it may lead to other starchy, storable crops in other parts of the world. Rice provides the necessary calories to cover the daily energy needs. It is also part of a millenarian culture, it is well adapted to the climate and soil conditions, and it is easily prepared in many ways. Sadly, while rice grains contain other important nutrients, they do not contain provitamin A, not even the unpolished grains. Plants produce provitamin A, which is a precursor of vitamin A, as well as other related compounds, called carotenoids. Hence, dependence on rice as the predominant food source unavaoidably leads to vitamin A deficiency, most severely affecting children and pregnant women. A major goal of the Golden Rice Project is to be capable of supplying the recommended daily intake of vitamin A to people living in rice-based societies. The tools necessary to achieve this goal are available since the development of an advanced version of Golden Rice known as GR2.The picture above shows the pleasant orange, translucent colour of 







Document Number: 4724
(psy) and phytoene desaturase (crt I), the pathway is reconstituted and -carotene is consequently accumulated in the endosperm, ie the edible part of the grain. Carotenoids and their derivatives include a vast number of molecules and accordingly a great number of enzymes and cofactors. Compounds derived from this important pathway include plant hormones, like abcisic acid and gibberellins, vitamin E, part of the chlorophyll molecule, and many natural pigments. A small number of carotenoids have provitamin A activity. The underlying science in more detail All plant tissues that accumulate high levels of carotenoid have a mechanism for carotenoid sequestration including crystallisation, oil deposition, membrane proliferation or protein-lipid sequestration. The non-carotenogenic starchy rice endosperm is very low in lipid and apparently lacks any such means for carotenoid deposition. Another restriction in Golden Rice could have been precursor supply. Also, many people believed that the whole carotenoid biosynthetic pathwaycomposed of many stepswas completely absent in the endosperm. For these reasons the generation of Golden Rice went through a long lag phase, until enough scientific data had been accumulated, which encouraged Peter Beyer and Ingo Potrykus to work together and try to engage in this seeminlgy unattainable endeavour. Their breakthrough showed that only 







Document Number: 7317
one having an acceptable standard of safety provides an important element of safety assessment (WHO, 1991). In 1993 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) further elaborated this concept and advocated the approach to safety assessment based on substantial equivalence as being the most practical approach to addressing the safety of foods and food components derived through modern biotechnology (as well as other methods of modifying a host genome including tissue culture methods and chemical or radiation induced mutation). In 2000 the Task Force concluded in its report to the G8 that the concept of substantial equivalence will need to be kept under review (OECD, 2000). The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Foods Derived from Biotechnology in 2000 concluded that the safety assessment of genetically modified foods requires an integrated and stepwise, case-by-case approach, which can be aided by a structured series of questions. A comparative approach focusing on the determination of similarities and differences between the genetically modified food and its conventional counterpart aids in the identification of potential safety and nutritional issues and is considered the most appropriate strategy for the safety and nutritional assessment of genetically modified foods. The concept of substantial equivalence was developed as 







Document Number: 7280
on Biosafety . Name and identity of the GMO (event number, OECD unique identifier etc), including domestic classification, if any, of the Biosafety level of the GMO in the exporting country. Events numbered 146, 309 and 652. Risk assessment classification: Class 1 Information on the recipient or parental organism a. Taxonomic status: Family name: Poacae Genus: Oryzae Species: Oryza sativa Subspecies: indica, japonica Cultivar/breeding line: Cocodrie b. Common name: Rice c. Centres of origin and centres of genetic diversity: Rice is grown worldwide and is a staple food for about half of the worlds population. The centre of diversity is thought to include the stretch from Assam in India and Bangledesh to Myanmar and Northern Thailand through to theYunan Province in China. This zone has both topographical and hydrological heterogeneity. d. Point of acquisition or collection: Cocodrie is a variety that is registered by Lousiana State University, USA. e. Characteristics related to biosafety, ie reproducibility, survivability (incl information on habitats where the parental organism is known to persist or proliferate), toxicity, allergenicity: Rice is an autogamous self-pollinating crop, replicating sexually through seeds and vegetatively through tillers in favourable temperature and water conditions. The life (viability) span of the pollen is 







Document Number: 2438
tetraploids (2n=4x=48), and ten different genome types: AA, BB, CC, BBCC, CCDD, EE, FF, GG, JJHH, and JJKK (Vaughan 1994; Ge et al 1999). The genus Oryza is distributed in Asia (eg O. rufipogon and O. nivara, both AA genomes), Africa (eg O. barthii, and O. longistaminata, both AA genomes), Australia (eg O. meridionalis, AA genome), tropical America (O. glumaepatula, AA genome, and O. grandiglumis, O. alta, and O. latifolia, all CCDD genomes) (Akimoto 1998; Sano and Sano 1990; Vaughan 1994). Asian cultivated rice (O. sativa) has the diploid AA genome. Wild progenitors of African cultivated rice (O. glaberrima, AA genome) are grasses endemic to West Africa. 2. Environmental Safety Considerations Outcrossing and Weediness Potential Cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) is primarily an autogamous, self-pollinating plant, although gene introgression into other cultivated rice is possible. Cultivated rice is an annual, it does not shatter or disperse its seed, and has not acquired extended dormancy. Reported outcrossing rates are less than one percent and are limited by the biological characteristics of rice (Messeguer et al 2001). Factors including flower morphology, inability of pollen to remain viable longer than a few minutes, and a lack of insect vectors for pollen spread contribute 







Document Number: 7175
introduce genes into rice. It took another nine yearsfrom 1990 to 1999to introduce the genes that reconstitute the pathway for provitamin A biosynthesis into the seed. That was the Golden Rice prototype obtained by Ingo Potrykus at the ETH in Zurich. After that, scientists in Freiburg and at Syngenta worked together to generate improved versions, which we now know as Golden Rice 1 and 2, respectively. The latter was announced to the public in 2004. It will take at least until 2011 before the first Golden Rice obtains final regulatory approval and can finally reach the first group of small holders in a target country. Considering the enormous humanitarian potential of Golden Rice in reducing blindness (500,000 children per year) and children's deaths (2-3 million per year), it is hardly understandable that lobby groups and the authorities are not learning from the accumulated experience and making the regulatory process more science and experience based. During the last 20 years a vast knowledge base regarding the production and commercialisation of transgenic plantshas been accumulated . While the Golden Rice Humanitarian Board understands that every new transgenic event must comply with regulations to guarantee the safety of a product derived from it, 







Document Number: 8087
combined with poor bioavailability of some micronutrients. Thus, a rice-based diet is the primary cause of micronutrient malnutrition throughout much of the developing world. Iron, zinc, and vitamin A deficiencies are common in rice-consuming regions. These deficiencies account for decreased work productivity, reduced mental capacity, stunting, blindness, increased child mortality, and other effects. Table 1. Composition and dietary contributions from white, long-grain, non-enriched rice (USDA Nutrient Database, 2001). Percent RDAs are derived from data from the Institute of Medicine/Food and Nutrition Board (2001); daily rice intake assumed to be 200 g DW/adult. DW, dry weight; RDA, recommended daily allowance. Nutrient g/g DW % RDA (pregnant women) Iron 9 7 Zinc 12.3 31 Vitamin C 0 0 Vitamin A 0 0 Vitamin E 1.3 2 Rice is the major energy source of more than half the world population, yet it lacks many life-supporting nutrients. People who cannot afford a varied diet suffer from multiple micronutrient deficiencies. Some important nutrients are lost during polishing, but unpolished rice cannot be stored, because the outer layer containing those nutrients is rich in lipids (fat) and is thus susceptible to oxidation processes that make the rice rancid and hence untasty. Amelioration of micronutrient deficiencies can 







Document Number: 7986
This is combined with poor bioavailability of some micronutrients. Thus, a rice-based diet is the primary cause of micronutrient malnutrition throughout much of the developing world. Iron, zinc, and vitamin A deficiencies are common in rice-consuming regions. These deficiencies account for decreased work productivity, reduced mental capacity, stunting, blindness, increased child mortality, and other effects. Table 1. Composition and dietary contributions from white, long-grain, non-enriched rice (USDA Nutrient Database, 2001). Percent RDAs are derived from data from the Institute of Medicine/Food and Nutrition Board (2001); daily rice intake assumed to be 200 g DW/adult. DW, dry weight; RDA, recommended daily allowance. Nutrient g/g DW % RDA (pregnant women) Iron 9 7 Zinc 12.3 31 Vitamin C 0 0 Vitamin A 0 0 Vitamin E 1.3 2 Rice is the major energy source of more than half the world population, yet it lacks many life-supporting nutrients. People who cannot afford a varied diet suffer from multiple micronutrient deficiencies. Some important nutrients are lost during polishing, but unpolished rice cannot be stored, because the outer layer containing those nutrients is rich in lipids (fat) and is thus susceptible to oxidation processes that make the rice rancid and hence untasty. Amelioration of micronutrient 







Document Number: 6472
in 2003 to encourage scientists to find the solutions that will revolutionize prevention and treatment of disease in developing countries. The initiative seeks to put to good use the extraordinary advances made by science in recent decades. This goal will be achieved by bringing together the worlds best minds in science and technology to find solutions to the problems that stand in the way of important advances against disease. Guided by an international board of scientists and with US$450 million in funding, the initiative focuses on achieving breakthroughs in a set of 14 Grand Challenges in Global Health distributed in the following areas : Improving existing childhood vaccines so they are easier and less expensive to use in developing countries Creating effective new vaccines Controlling insects that transmit disease Improving nutrition to promote health (corresponds to Grand Challenge #9) Discovering ways to prevent drug resistance Curing latent and chronic infections Measuring disease and health status in developing countries accurately Four projects are being funded within Grand Challenge #9. They all are concerned with improving the micronutrients content of important staple crops. You may obtain information on the three other projects by following the links below: BioCassava Plus African Biofortified Sorghum 







Document Number: 716
a concrete fear there is of course no target to look for. Detailed molecular analyses have failed to find new allergens showing up as a consequence of having introduced a new gene into a plant, and determination of the expression levels of ten-thousands of genes have also shown that the only changes encountered are related to the introduced genes and those involved in related metabolic pathways. Gene expression levels vary probably less after the introduction of a foreign gene than after the traditional crossing of two varieties, where thousands of regulatory factors and pathways interact in unexpected ways. Genetically modified plants destined for field release are some of the most in detail examined organisms worldwide, and this is not different for Golden Rice, in fact it is one of the reasons why it has not reached the people who need it yet. Many tests have been performed on Golden Rice and many are yet to be performed. A number of tests require kilogram amounts of seed; these tests have been unnecessarily delayed by the difficulties in being able to carry out field trials with Golden Rice, not enough seed can be produced when grown in the glasshouse. Does it taste 







Document Number: 8352
can decide to whom to license and under what conditions. Notwithstanding the fact that a number of patented technologies were involved in the production of Golden Rice (Kryder et al. 2000), Syngenta Seeds AG was able to negotiate access to all pieces of the puzzle actively necessary for the intended humanitarian purposes, providing the Golden RiceHumanitarian Board with the right to sublicense breeding institutions in developing countries free of charge. The patented key technology for Golden Rice production, invented by Prof emeritus Ingo Potrykus, of ETH-Zurich and Prof Peter Beyer, of the Univ of Freiburg, provided access to a package of ancillary technologies required to engineer the trait into rice. A license to those technologies was obtained from Syngenta. The package contained proprietary technologies belonging not only to Syngenta but also to Bayer AG, Monsanto Co, Orynova BV, and Zeneca Mogen BV.These companies provided access to the required technologies free of charge, for humanitarian purposes. Eliminating reach-through rights and technologies that don't show up in the most recently developed Golden Rice versions leaves us with only a few patented technologies, all of which have been made available for humanitarian purposes free of charge. The licensing process was quick and simple, 







Document Number: 8113
retailers can help the U.S. wheat industry gain acceptance for biotech products. In 2007, for the first time, the U.S. baking industry became concerned about the high cost and tight supplies of wheat. This is due in large measure to the fact that wheat producers are converting their acreage to more profitable crops. Biotechnology would help increase yields and grower profitability, creating a win-win for the industry and the grower. Question: Will consumers ever accept bread and other products made with biotech ingredients? Answer: Many wheat-based food products sold today already utilize biotech ingredients. For instance, in a loaf of bread there is usually biotech soy flour or oil. It may also contain sugar from biotech sugar beets. In fact, biotech yeast has been used in making bread in Europe, Japan, U.S. and many other countries for well over a decade. These products have been approved by regulatory authorities as being safe for human consumption, the same standard that biotech wheat will eventually achieve. Given biotechnology is already thoroughly incorporated into the food products we have been safely consuming for more than a decade, we see no reason to discriminate against wheat producers who need the benefits that biotechnology can 







Document Number: 9187
development and acceptance of agricultural biotechnology through public policy outreach. Jones' extensive farming background, coupled with two decades in the Idaho Legislature, made him a good fit as executive director, members of the group said. "He brings a good perspective to an organization like ours that has a focus on broad policy issues," said Barry Bushue, a member of the organization's board of directors. For farmers, influencing public policy "is what it's all about these days," said Bushue, who is also president of the Oregon Farm Bureau. "Doug brings an understanding of that process." Jones and Celia Gould, now director of the Idaho State Department of Agriculture, served together on the House Agricultural Affairs Committee. Jones was the chairman for 10 years. "Doug was always very active in agricultural issues in the Legislature," Gould said. "That was the primary focus for him." He was instrumental in pushing through legislation that strengthened Idaho's commodity warehouse indemnity law, Gould said. The measure helped protect growers from the financial fallout when warehouse operators fail. "That legislation was very innovative at the time and still serves us well today," she said. Jones owned and operated an irrigated row crop farm for 35 years near 







Document Number: 874
see farm fields that are almost free of weeds, giving little if any thought to how the fields became so clean. Without herbicides or frequent cultivation, the fields would be overrun with weeds. If left uncontrolled, these weeds could reduce soybean yields by 50 to 90 percent. In fact, some farmers in the Northern Plains stopped growing soybeans prior to the advent of herbicide tolerant soybeans (Roundup Ready) because of weed pressure. For nearly five decades, growers have used herbicides, along with various types of tillage or cultivation, to control weeds. Before the advent of Roundup Ready soybeans, farmers had to use multiple herbicides to control the full spectrum of weeds in our fields. We would need one type of herbicide for grassy weeds and another type for broadleaf weeds. Depending on the species present, we might have to use more than one broadleaf herbicide or grass herbicide, because not all species are equally susceptible. Some soybean fields were treated with as many as four different herbicides. Even then, some weeds escaped and had to be controlled later with cultivation. We had some perennial noxious weed problems that we simply could not control in soybeans, because any herbicide that would 







Document Number: 3931
from crops and interfere with harvesting equipment. Weed control in corn provides special challenges. Corn is planted in wider rows and grows straight up. It takes several weeks for corn to provide a shade canopy that retards the growth of weeds. Soybeans, which are planted in narrower rows, are broadleaf plants and spread out to more quickly provide a shade canopy. In both crops, however, it is important to provide weed control early in the growing season. With soybeans, the weed control can come post-emergence (after the weeds and crop have emerged) because the developing canopy will help prevent a second flush of weeds. With corn, however, it is important to prevent weeds from emerging to compete with the corn seedlings. Corn growers traditionally use pre-emergence herbicides to prevent weeds from sprouting at planting. A few weeks later, a post-emergence application is required to control later-emerging weeds. Also, historically, one to two cultivations during the growing season were necessary to keep the corn field clean of weeds. Before the development of herbicide-tolerant corn (Liberty Link or Roundup Ready), growers typically applied a pre-emergence mixture of two herbicides ? one to control grasses (most often acetochlor or metolachlor) and one for 







Document Number: 6092
biotech corn. The result is that farmers do not have to spray for corn borers or spread soil-applied insecticides to kill rootworms. We see higher yields and cleaner grain, and we save on fuel because we do not have to pass through our fields with tractors and application equipment. Wildlife benefits as well, because the biotech corn contains a naturally occurring bacterial protein that is fatal to the targeted pest but harmless to beneficial insects, birds and mammals. Before the biotech corn was developed, farmers used a mixture of chemical insecticides that were harmful to nearly every insect as well as to birds and mammals that might be present during application. Farmers also needed special safety equipment to protect themselves from effects of these chemicals. The corn borer was very difficult to control before the advent of biotech corn. The borer is the caterpillar or larval form of a moth. The moths lay their eggs in the whorls of corn plants, and within a week, the eggs hatch and the larvae bore into the stalk of the plant. Once inside the plant, no chemical insecticide could control them. This meant that farmers had to carefully scout their fields and immediately 







Document Number: 179
weeds or grass. And, of course, farmers who sell hay get more for high quality hay than they can expect from hay contaminated with weeds. Producing a pure stand of alfalfa is a tough prospect for growers, but it would be greatly simplified if we were able to plant Roundup Ready Alfalfa, which has been approved by federal regulators but is now held up by an activist group?s lawsuit. Alfalfa is a perennial crop. A stand typically lasts three to five years before it is destroyed and re-established. Weeds pose different challenges at different phases of a stand?s life. Weed control is especially critical and challenging during stand establishment. Alfalfa seedlings are poor competitors against weeds due to their small seed size and limited energy reserve. It?s not at all unusual for the first cutting to have 50 to 75 percent weed content if weeds are not properly controlled during this critical stage. The big problem we have right now is that currently available herbicides can also damage the seedlings, further restricting their ability to establish themselves. Many times a poorly established stand may never fully recover. In cases like that, farmers either plow under the alfalfa or intentionally plant 







Document Number: 8438
article, we provide a scientific perspective on these concerns that we hope will inform. Concern 1. Once you release this gene ? you can?t call it back. Over 300,000 acres of RR alfalfa have been planted for hay over the past 2 to 3 years, with a limited amount planted for seed. The real question is whether you can continue to plant conventional alfalfa seed and the answer is a resounding ?yes? ? all of the seed currently for sale is ?conventional? ? and you only need to test it (or ask the seed company to test it) with inexpensive test strips to make sure it does not contain the gene if you don?t want it. Conventional alfalfa seed will continue to be available after Roundup Ready alfalfa is released. Concern 2. Won?t contamination from neighboring fields result in all seed being Roundup Ready, eventually? No. Seed production methods and isolation distances currently recommended by seed companies should keep adventitious presence at a very low level for seed. A gene will increase in a population only if the new gene gives the plant an advantage over other plants and the conditions creating the advantage are consistently present. Conversely, if plants 







Document Number: 8740
very strongly today, that fiber development and pesticides was no longer a viable business opportunity. From an environmental point of view, it didn't really make sense, either. So we stopped all chemical investment, and really redirected our energy towards biotech. That was the first main thread. He is chief operating officer for Monsanto. In this interview Grant addresses the issues of gene migration and pest resistance with GM crops, the refuge strategy, the U.S. public's perception of biotech products, the lessons of StarLink (the animal feed GM corn, which hadn't been approved for human consumption, that was found in taco shells), and the issue of labelling GM food products. (Interview conducted December 2000.) The second thread, the one that really drove our company to make the biotech investment, was a future view on food requirements. The answer that we developed was that we believe that the world needs about 35 percent to 40 percent more food produced on every acre. Chemicals weren't the answer to that next increment of production. It was in genetics. It was in better seed. So, really, that's been driving us for more than ten years now. . . . You're not selling the seed; you're 







Document Number: 3539
a boy, and there was sort of a reaction to it. And then--you never do this today--but he challenged the kid with authentic smallpox. And the boy did not get smallpox, so he made the correlation. President emeritus of the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Cornell University, is working on making safer vaccines for viruses which kill millions in the developing world. He discusses his work developing edible vaccines (inside GM bananas, tomatoes, or potatoes). He also talks about Europe's opposition to GM foods and science's hopes for applying GM techniques to future foods, medicines, and environmental cleanup. (Interview conducted September 2000.) That was the first model of a vaccine where you used, in that case, a related virus. Today we call them attenuated viruses, because they're like the real pathogen--a thing that causes disease--but they're either weakened, sometimes killed, chemically inactivated--or there are relatives. So it could be a virus that attacks cattle but not people, but it still triggers an immune response. So for 200 years, most vaccines have been built around this concept of using a relative of what causes disease in us, or an inactivated form. Then along came molecular biology in the mid- 







Document Number: 3262
is director of the Biotechnology and Life Sciences Informatics Program at the University of California, Davis. offers an overview of crossbreeding techniques over the centuries, how it compares with new GM technology, and explains how much of human genes already are shared with plants. She also addresses Europe's GM food fight, U.S. food safety and regulatory performance, and multinational companies' intellectual property rights on GM seeds. (Interview conducted August 2000.) Yes. They discovered shards of pottery outside Edinburgh that had the remains of Neolithic beer. . . . That pottery dated back to 6500 B.C. We've also been modifying plants and animals literally for thousands of years, through selective breeding and culling of animals, for example, that didn't have the traits we want. Why have we been modifying nature? If we just took what was there, what would we find? If you took what was available in the wild, the population of the world would be much smaller than it is. The capability of generating sufficient food to feed individuals from wild produce is very low. You literally would still be a hunter-gatherer society. We wouldn't be settled; we definitely wouldn't have cultivated agriculture; and we wouldn't have any of 







Document Number: 6468
in the United States and pervading the food system here. What we're most concerned about, obviously, is the environmental risk. . . . Nobody knows what the consequences are going to be, and the untoward side effects will be irreversible. . . . As a campaign, it's been astonishingly successful, first in Europe. What's the state of play over there? A genetic engineering specialist with Greenpeace, criticizes U.S. regulatory agencies' performance in monitoring GM foods, explains why GM technology deserves special scrutiny, points out the developing world is not unanimous in accepting biotech food, and outlines why Greenpeace's main concern with GM crops is the environmental risk. (Interview conducted October 2000.) In Europe five years ago, genetic engineering was virtually unknown. When the first genetically engineered soybeans went from the United States into the European food supply, consumers in Europe first became aware that this new technology was entering their food system, and they had a lot of questions about it. . . . The most interesting thing about Europe is how quickly food companies responded. . . . Today, virtually every major food company in Europe and every major supermarket in Europe has a policy of excluding the use 







Document Number: 6309
the experiment. The position I took at the time was that we hadn't really examined any of the potential environmental consequences of introducing genetically modified organisms. President of The Foundation on Economic Trends, he is a longtime opponent of biotechnology. outlines why GM food is radically different from classical breeding and discusses how there are better ways to apply bioengineering to agricultural products. He also counters the argument that GM food is a solution in helping to feed a hungry world and talks about the threat of life science companies like Monsanto employing antitrust tactics in their patenting of gene technology. (Interview conducted August 2000.) We were making the first step out of the age of chemistry and physics, and into the age of biology. All of our regulations had been set up in an era in which physics and chemistry ruled. It seemed to me that we needed to have a thorough and thoughtful global discussion on the potential environmental implications of reseeding the earth with genetically modified organisms. At that time, the only discussion that had been held was a 20- to 25-minute meeting in a congressional committee that was overseeing this particularly genetically modified organism for release. 







Document Number: 7967
a boy, and there was sort of a reaction to it. And then--you never do this today--but he challenged the kid with authentic smallpox. And the boy did not get smallpox, so he made the correlation. President emeritus of the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research at Cornell University, is working on making safer vaccines for viruses which kill millions in the developing world. He discusses his work developing edible vaccines (inside GM bananas, tomatoes, or potatoes). He also talks about Europe's opposition to GM foods and science's hopes for applying GM techniques to future foods, medicines, and environmental cleanup. (Interview conducted September 2000.) That was the first model of a vaccine where you used, in that case, a related virus. Today we call them attenuated viruses, because they're like the real pathogen--a thing that causes disease--but they're either weakened, sometimes killed, chemically inactivated--or there are relatives. So it could be a virus that attacks cattle but not people, but it still triggers an immune response. So for 200 years, most vaccines have been built around this concept of using a relative of what causes disease in us, or an inactivated form. Then along came molecular biology in the mid- 







Document Number: 450
is director of the Biotechnology and Life Sciences Informatics Program at the University of California, Davis. offers an overview of crossbreeding techniques over the centuries, how it compares with new GM technology, and explains how much of human genes already are shared with plants. She also addresses Europe's GM food fight, U.S. food safety and regulatory performance, and multinational companies' intellectual property rights on GM seeds. (Interview conducted August 2000.) Yes. They discovered shards of pottery outside Edinburgh that had the remains of Neolithic beer. . . . That pottery dated back to 6500 B.C. We've also been modifying plants and animals literally for thousands of years, through selective breeding and culling of animals, for example, that didn't have the traits we want. Why have we been modifying nature? If we just took what was there, what would we find? If you took what was available in the wild, the population of the world would be much smaller than it is. The capability of generating sufficient food to feed individuals from wild produce is very low. You literally would still be a hunter-gatherer society. We wouldn't be settled; we definitely wouldn't have cultivated agriculture; and we wouldn't have any of 







Document Number: 1300
sustainable agriculture. Moreover, because they may present risks, they should be carefully regulated. That, then, leads us to do a considerable amount of work urging the three agencies involved--the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, and the Environmental Protection Agency--to improve their regulatory schemes. A senior staff scientist with the Union of Concerned Scientists, she talks about why bioengineered plants present a new kind of uncertainty in crossbreeding and the lack of substantive testing to date. also discusses why U.S. regulatory agencies seem satisfied with this new technology and the difference between genetic engineering for medicines vs. for food.(Interview conducted October 2000.) But you're not saying that GM crops are inherently more dangerous than traditional crops? No. We're not opposed to genetically engineered crops across the board. We do see this as a powerful new technology. This is where we part company with a lot of agricultural scientists, who see this as nothing more than an extension of traditional breeding. . . . With traditional crossbreeding, you also introduce genes and have uncertainties as to how those genes will act. You have a different sort of uncertainty with genetically engineered crops--at least that's what I'm told by ecological 







Document Number: 1934
in the United States and pervading the food system here. What we're most concerned about, obviously, is the environmental risk. . . . Nobody knows what the consequences are going to be, and the untoward side effects will be irreversible. . . . As a campaign, it's been astonishingly successful, first in Europe. What's the state of play over there? A genetic engineering specialist with Greenpeace, criticizes U.S. regulatory agencies' performance in monitoring GM foods, explains why GM technology deserves special scrutiny, points out the developing world is not unanimous in accepting biotech food, and outlines why Greenpeace's main concern with GM crops is the environmental risk. (Interview conducted October 2000.) In Europe five years ago, genetic engineering was virtually unknown. When the first genetically engineered soybeans went from the United States into the European food supply, consumers in Europe first became aware that this new technology was entering their food system, and they had a lot of questions about it. . . . The most interesting thing about Europe is how quickly food companies responded. . . . Today, virtually every major food company in Europe and every major supermarket in Europe has a policy of excluding the use 







Document Number: 6204
in the works benefiting our waistlines (low-calorie sugar beets and oils with lower saturated fat content, for example) and others bearing higher nutritional content (high-fiber corn and high-starch potatoes). And they will be safer to eat. GM corn has lower fungal toxin content than non-GM corn, and farmers typically produce GM crops using fewer pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers. GM foods will have even greater benefits for the world's poor, supporters state. In developing countries, malnutrition is a grave problem, because people often have to rely on a single staple, such as rice, that on its own doesn't supply sufficient nutrients. Food scientists hope to genetically modify crops to add vitamins and minerals. One of the most promising is "golden rice," which can stimulate our bodies to generate vitamin A. In the developing world, vitamin-A deficiency kills two million children each year, and another 500,000 become permanently blind. Eventually GM plants will serve as environmentally friendly 'factories' that mass-produce useful substances such as pharmaceuticals. Scientists are hard at work, for instance, trying to genetically add vaccines to tomatoes or bananas. Traditional vaccines are costly to manufacture and require specialized storage not always available in developing countries. "Eatable vaccines," developers say, will 







Document Number: 880
avoid such losses and bring their produce to market at less cost. By the same token, weeds rob crops of vital nutrients. To do away with them, farmers often have to spray large amounts of weed killers, a time-consuming and expensive process. With, say, GM soybeans that are resistant to a single broad-spectrum herbicide, farmers only need to use a single weed killer rather than multiple kinds, and they may have to make only a single application rather than several. Using a single broad-spectrum herbicide can also help reduce land degradation, advocates say, by enabling farmers to optimize their use of "no-till" agriculture. Leaving dead plants where they lie rather than plowing them into the ground can reduce soil erosion by 70 percent, industry officials claim. Soil erosion is a serious global problem, with farmers losing an estimated 25 billion tons of topsoil through runoff and wind every year. Scientists are developing GM technologies to help farmers battle other scourges as well. To reduce losses from sudden frosts, which can kill young plants, geneticists have experimented with putting an antifreeze gene into tomato plants. To help crops cope with disease, researchers are trying to genetically confer disease resistance to food 







Document Number: 7155
primarily driven by research and innovation. Their argument is straightforward: Innovation is the only way to meet the world's burgeoning needs for food and medicines in a rapidly shrinking and increasingly scarred natural environment. Innovation requires costly and time-consuming research and testing, which will only happen if it's paid for. The best way to ensure it's paid for is through intellectual property protection. Patents should operate worldwide, they maintain, because markets are increasingly global in nature. The result of this innovation will be GM crops that will offer our best chance to adequately address the challenge of feeding the estimated six billion people who, in as few as 50 years by some estimates, will join the six billion of us already here. GM crop farming holds out greater promise than conventional farming of boosting production on the same amount of ground, adherents say, and of raising crops where none could grow before, such as on salt-laden land. In increasing yields and making marginal lands productive, GM promoters insist, lie our only means of staving off widespread famine in developing countries in the coming decades. "The possibility that (biotech) crops could make a substantial contribution to providing sufficient food for an


the rock is destined to be the 21st century's new " conan " and that he's going to make a splash even greater than arnold schwarzenegger , jean-claud van damme or steven segal . 
the gorgeously elaborate continuation of " the lord of the rings " trilogy is so huge that a column of words cannot adequately describe co-writer/director peter jackson's expanded vision of j . r . r . tolkien's middle-earth . 
effective but too-tepid biopic
if you sometimes like to go to the movies to have fun , wasabi is a good place to start . 
emerges as something rare , an issue movie that's so honest and keenly observed that it doesn't feel like one . 
the film provides some great insight into the neurotic mindset of all comics -- even those who have reached the absolute top of the game . 
offers that rare combination of entertainment and education . 
perhaps no picture ever made has more literally showed that the road to hell is paved with good intentions . 
steers turns in a snappy screenplay that curls at the edges ; it's so clever you want to hate it . but he somehow pulls it off . 
take care of my cat offers a refreshingly different slice of asian cinema . 
this is a film well worth seeing , talking and singing heads and all . 
what really surprises about wisegirls is its low-key quality and genuine tenderness . 
 ( wendigo is ) why we go to the cinema : to be fed through the eye , the heart , the mind . 
one of the greatest family-oriented , fantasy-adventure movies ever . 
ultimately , it ponders the reasons we need stories so much . 
an utterly compelling 'who wrote it' in which the reputation of the most famous author who ever lived comes into question . 
illuminating if overly talky documentary . 
a masterpiece four years in the making . 
the movie's ripe , enrapturing beauty will tempt those willing to probe its inscrutable mysteries . 
offers a breath of the fresh air of true sophistication . 
a thoughtful , provocative , insistently humanizing film . 
with a cast that includes some of the top actors working in independent film , lovely & amazing involves us because it is so incisive , so bleakly amusing about how we go about our lives . 
a disturbing and frighteningly evocative assembly of imagery and hypnotic music composed by philip glass . 
not for everyone , but for those with whom it will connect , it's a nice departure from standard moviegoing fare . 
scores a few points for doing what it does with a dedicated and good-hearted professionalism . 
occasionally melodramatic , it's also extremely effective . 
spiderman rocks
an idealistic love story that brings out the latent 15-year-old romantic in everyone . 
at about 95 minutes , treasure planet maintains a brisk pace as it races through the familiar story . however , it lacks grandeur and that epic quality often associated with stevenson's tale as well as with earlier disney efforts . 
it helps that lil bow wow . . . tones down his pint-sized gangsta act to play someone who resembles a real kid . 
guaranteed to move anyone who ever shook , rattled , or rolled . 
a masterful film from a master filmmaker , unique in its deceptive grimness , compelling in its fatalist worldview . 
light , cute and forgettable . 
if there's a way to effectively teach kids about the dangers of drugs , i think it's in projects like the ( unfortunately r-rated ) paid . 
while it would be easy to give crush the new title of two weddings and a funeral , it's a far more thoughtful film than any slice of hugh grant whimsy . 
though everything might be literate and smart , it never took off and always seemed static . 
cantet perfectly captures the hotel lobbies , two-lane highways , and roadside cafes that permeate vincent's days
ms . fulford-wierzbicki is almost spooky in her sulky , calculating lolita turn . 
though it is by no means his best work , laissez-passer is a distinguished and distinctive effort by a bona-fide master , a fascinating film replete with rewards to be had by all willing to make the effort to reap them . 
like most bond outings in recent years , some of the stunts are so outlandish that they border on being cartoonlike . a heavy reliance on cgi technology is beginning to creep into the series . 
newton draws our attention like a magnet , and acts circles around her better known co-star , mark wahlberg . 
the story loses its bite in a last-minute happy ending that's even less plausible than the rest of the picture . much of the way , though , this is a refreshingly novel ride . 
fuller would surely have called this gutsy and at times exhilarating movie a great yarn . 
'compleja e intelectualmente retadora , el ladrn de orqudeas es uno de esos filmes que vale la pena ver precisamente por su originalidad . '
the film makes a strong case for the importance of the musicians in creating the motown sound . 
karmen moves like rhythm itself , her lips chanting to the beat , her long , braided hair doing little to wipe away the jeweled beads of sweat . 
gosling provides an amazing performance that dwarfs everything else in the film . 
a real movie , about real people , that gives us a rare glimpse into a culture most of us don't know . 
tender yet lacerating and darkly funny fable . 
may be spoofing an easy target -- those old '50's giant creature features -- but . . . it acknowledges and celebrates their cheesiness as the reason why people get a kick out of watching them today . 
an engaging overview of johnson's eccentric career . 
in its ragged , cheap and unassuming way , the movie works . 
some actors have so much charisma that you'd be happy to listen to them reading the phone book . hugh grant and sandra bullock are two such likeable actors . 
sandra nettelbeck beautifully orchestrates the transformation of the chilly , neurotic , and self-absorbed martha as her heart begins to open . 
behind the snow games and lovable siberian huskies ( plus one sheep dog ) , the picture hosts a parka-wrapped dose of heart . 
everytime you think undercover brother has run out of steam , it finds a new way to surprise and amuse . 
manages to be original , even though it rips off many of its ideas . 
singer/composer bryan adams contributes a slew of songs  a few potential hits , a few more simply intrusive to the story  but the whole package certainly captures the intended , er , spirit of the piece . 
you'd think by now america would have had enough of plucky british eccentrics with hearts of gold . yet the act is still charming here . 
whether or not you're enlightened by any of derrida's lectures on " the other " and " the self , " derrida is an undeniably fascinating and playful fellow . 
a pleasant enough movie , held together by skilled ensemble actors . 
this is the best american movie about troubled teens since 1998's whatever . 
disney has always been hit-or-miss when bringing beloved kids' books to the screen . . . tuck everlasting is a little of both . 
just the labour involved in creating the layered richness of the imagery in this chiaroscuro of madness and light is astonishing . 
the animated subplot keenly depicts the inner struggles of our adolescent heroes - insecure , uncontrolled , and intense . 
the invincible werner herzog is alive and well and living in la
morton is a great actress portraying a complex character , but morvern callar grows less compelling the farther it meanders from its shocking start . 
part of the charm of satin rouge is that it avoids the obvious with humour and lightness . 
son of the bride may be a good half-hour too long but comes replete with a flattering sense of mystery and quietness . 
a simmering psychological drama in which the bursts of sudden violence are all the more startling for the slow buildup that has preceded them . 
a taut , intelligent psychological drama . 
a compelling coming-of-age drama about the arduous journey of a sensitive young girl through a series of foster homes and a fierce struggle to pull free from her dangerous and domineering mother's hold over her . 
a truly moving experience , and a perfect example of how art -- when done right -- can help heal , clarify , and comfort . 
this delicately observed story , deeply felt and masterfully stylized , is a triumph for its maverick director . 
at heart the movie is a deftly wrought suspense yarn whose richer shadings work as coloring rather than substance . 
the appearance of treebeard and gollum's expanded role will either have you loving what you're seeing , or rolling your eyes . i loved it ! gollum's 'performance' is incredible ! 
a screenplay more ingeniously constructed than " memento " 
if this movie were a book , it would be a page-turner , you can't wait to see what happens next . 
haneke challenges us to confront the reality of sexual aberration . 
absorbing and disturbing -- perhaps more disturbing than originally intended -- but a little clarity would have gone a long way . 
it's the best film of the year so far , the benchmark against which all other best picture contenders should be measured . 
painful to watch , but viewers willing to take a chance will be rewarded with two of the year's most accomplished and riveting film performances . 
this is a startling film that gives you a fascinating , albeit depressing view of iranian rural life close to the iraqi border . 
an imaginative comedy/thriller . 
a few artsy flourishes aside , narc is as gritty as a movie gets these days . 
while the isle is both preposterous and thoroughly misogynistic , its vistas are incredibly beautiful to look at . 
together , tok and o orchestrate a buoyant , darkly funny dance of death . in the process , they demonstrate that there's still a lot of life in hong kong cinema . 
director kapur is a filmmaker with a real flair for epic landscapes and adventure , and this is a better film than his earlier english-language movie , the overpraised elizabeth . 
the movie is a blast of educational energy , as bouncy animation and catchy songs escort you through the entire 85 minutes . 
a sports movie with action that's exciting on the field and a story you care about off it . 
doug liman , the director of bourne , directs the traffic well , gets a nice wintry look from his locations , absorbs us with the movie's spycraft and uses damon's ability to be focused and sincere . 
the tenderness of the piece is still intact . 
katz uses archival footage , horrifying documents of lynchings , still photographs and charming old reel-to-reel recordings of meeropol entertaining his children to create his song history , but most powerful of all is the song itself
like the film's almost anthropologically detailed realization of early-'80s suburbia , it's significant without being overstated . 
while mcfarlane's animation lifts the film firmly above the level of other coming-of-age films . . . it's also so jarring that it's hard to get back into the boys' story . 
if nothing else , this movie introduces a promising , unusual kind of psychological horror . 
in a normal screen process , these bromides would be barely enough to sustain an interstitial program on the discovery channel . but in imax 3-d , the clichs disappear into the vertiginous perspectives opened up by the photography . 
writer-director burger imaginatively fans the embers of a dormant national grief and curiosity that has calcified into chronic cynicism and fear . 
 . . . a roller-coaster ride of a movie
i enjoyed time of favor while i was watching it , but i was surprised at how quickly it faded from my memory . 
chicago is sophisticated , brash , sardonic , completely joyful in its execution . 
steve irwin's method is ernest hemmingway at accelerated speed and volume . 
a refreshing korean film about five female high school friends who face an uphill battle when they try to take their relationships into deeper waters . 
on the surface , it's a lovers-on-the-run crime flick , but it has a lot in common with piesiewicz's and kieslowski's earlier work , films like the double life of veronique . 
the values that have held the enterprise crew together through previous adventures and perils do so again-courage , self-sacrifice and patience under pressure . 
if it's possible for a sequel to outshine the original , then sl2 does just that . 
a romantic comedy that operates by the rules of its own self-contained universe . 
4 friends , 2 couples , 2000 miles , and all the pabst blue ribbon beer they can drink - it's the ultimate redneck road-trip . 
the film is often filled with a sense of pure wonderment and excitement not often seen in today's cinema du sarcasm
it might be tempting to regard mr . andrew and his collaborators as oddballs , but mr . earnhart's quizzical , charming movie allows us to see them , finally , as artists . 
a feel-good picture in the best sense of the term . 
edited and shot with a syncopated style mimicking the work of his subjects , pray turns the idea of the documentary on its head , making it rousing , invigorating fun lacking any mtv puffery . 
a mostly intelligent , engrossing and psychologically resonant suspenser . 
it's this memory-as-identity obviation that gives secret life its intermittent unease , reaffirming that long-held illusions are indeed reality , and that erasing them recasts the self . 
hip-hop has a history , and it's a metaphor for this love story . 
in scope , ambition and accomplishment , children of the century . . . takes kurys' career to a whole new level . 
this may not have the dramatic gut-wrenching impact of other holocaust films , but it's a compelling story , mainly because of the way it's told by the people who were there . 
between the drama of cube ? s personal revelations regarding what the shop means in the big picture , iconic characters gambol fluidly through the story , with charming results . 
a gentle , compassionate drama about grief and healing . 
somewhere short of tremors on the modern b-scene : neither as funny nor as clever , though an agreeably unpretentious way to spend ninety minutes . 
digital-video documentary about stand-up comedians is a great glimpse into a very different world . 
unlike most teen flicks , swimming takes its time to tell its story , casts mostly little-known performers in key roles , and introduces some intriguing ambiguity . 
an enthralling , playful film that constantly frustrates our desire to know the 'truth' about this man , while deconstructing the very format of the biography in a manner that derrida would doubtless give his blessing to . 
 " extreme ops " exceeds expectations . good fun , good action , good acting , good dialogue , good pace , good cinematography . 
you should pay nine bucks for this : because you can hear about suffering afghan refugees on the news and still be unaffected . dramas like this make it human . 
a thunderous ride at first , quiet cadences of pure finesse are few and far between ; their shortage dilutes the potency of otherwise respectable action . still , this flick is fun , and host to some truly excellent sequences . 
it's obviously struck a responsive chord with many south koreans , and should work its magic in other parts of the world . 
run , don't walk , to see this barbed and bracing comedy on the big screen . 
a classy item by a legend who may have nothing left to prove but still has the chops and drive to show how its done . 
it is nature against progress . in fessenden's horror trilogy , this theme has proved important to him and is especially so in the finale . 
it's not exactly a gourmet meal but the fare is fair , even coming from the drive-thru . 
this is what imax was made for : strap on a pair of 3-d goggles , shut out the real world , and take a vicarious voyage to the last frontier -- space . 
merely as a technical , logistical feat , russian ark marks a cinematic milestone . 
[schweiger is] talented and terribly charismatic , qualities essential to both movie stars and social anarchists . 
it's a great deal of sizzle and very little steak . but what spectacular sizzle it is ! . . . in this incarnation its fizz is infectious . 
an original gem about an obsession with time . 
it will delight newcomers to the story and those who know it from bygone days . 
gloriously goofy ( and gory ) midnight movie stuff . 
the film overcomes the regular minefield of coming-of-age cliches with potent doses of honesty and sensitivity . 
if your senses haven't been dulled by slasher films and gorefests , if you're a connoisseur of psychological horror , this is your ticket . 
it's a minor comedy that tries to balance sweetness with coarseness , while it paints a sad picture of the singles scene . 
it is intensely personal and yet -- unlike quills -- deftly shows us the temper of the times . 
as lo-fi as the special effects are , the folks who cobbled nemesis together indulge the force of humanity over hardware in a way that george lucas has long forgotten . 
like mike doesn't win any points for originality . it does succeed by following a feel-good formula with a winning style , and by offering its target audience of urban kids some welcome role models and optimism . 
it's a hoot and a half , and a great way for the american people to see what a candidate is like when he's not giving the same 15-cent stump speech . 
far from perfect , but its heart is in the right place . . . innocent and well-meaning . 
a sad , superior human comedy played out on the back roads of life . 
waydowntown is by no means a perfect film , but its boasts a huge charm factor and smacks of originality . 
tim allen is great in his role but never hogs the scenes from his fellow cast , as there are plenty of laughs and good lines for everyone in this comedy . 
more a load of enjoyable , conan-esque claptrap than the punishing , special-effects soul assaults the mummy pictures represent . 
enormously likable , partly because it is aware of its own grasp of the absurd . 
here's a british flick gleefully unconcerned with plausibility , yet just as determined to entertain you . 
it's an old story , but a lively script , sharp acting and partially animated interludes make just a kiss seem minty fresh . 
must be seen to be believed . 
ray liotta and jason patric do some of their best work in their underwritten roles , but don't be fooled : nobody deserves any prizes here . 
everything that has to do with yvan and charlotte , and everything that has to do with yvan's rambunctious , jewish sister and her non-jew husband , feels funny and true . 
sweet home alabama " is what it is  a nice , harmless date film . . . 
the year's happiest surprise , a movie that deals with a real subject in an always surprising way . 
fans of behan's work and of irish movies in general will be rewarded by borstal boy . 
its mysteries are transparently obvious , and it's too slowly paced to be a thriller . [but it's] worth recommending because of two marvelous performances by michael caine and brendan fraser . 
the film is faithful to what one presumes are the book's twin premises -- that we become who we are on the backs of our parents , but we have no idea who they were at our age ; and that time is a fleeting and precious commodity no matter how old you are . 
stephen earnhart's homespun documentary mule skinner blues has nothing but love for its posse of trailer park denizens . 
a solidly seaworthy chiller . 
if you can get past the fantastical aspects and harsh realities of " the isle " you'll get a sock-you-in-the-eye flick that is a visual tour-de-force and a story that is unlike any you will likely see anywhere else . 
there are as many misses as hits , but ultimately , it finds humor in the foibles of human behavior , and it's a welcome return to the roots of a genre that should depend on surprises . 
a well-made thriller with a certain level of intelligence and non-reactionary morality . 
there's enough science to make it count as educational , and enough beauty to make it unforgettable . 
remains a solid , if somewhat heavy-handed , account of the near-disaster . . . done up by howard with a steady , if not very imaginative , hand . 
makmalbaf follows a resolutely realistic path in this uncompromising insight into the harsh existence of the kurdish refugees of iran's borderlands . 
for a good chunk of its running time , trapped is an effective and claustrophobic thriller . 
most of crush is a clever and captivating romantic comedy with a welcome pinch of tartness . 
nair does capture the complexity of a big family and its trials and tribulations . . . 
the seaside splendor and shallow , beautiful people are nice to look at while you wait for the story to get going . 
rare is the 'urban comedy' that even attempts the insight and honesty of this disarming indie . 
ranks among willams' best screen work . 
engagingly captures the maddening and magnetic ebb and flow of friendship . 
an experience so engrossing it is like being buried in a new environment . 
it's traditional moviemaking all the way , but it's done with a lot of careful period attention as well as some very welcome wit . 
thoroughly enjoyable . 
maybe it's just because this past year has seen the release of some of the worst film comedies in decades . . . but honestly , analyze that really isn't all that bad . 
a droll , well-acted , character-driven comedy with unexpected deposits of feeling . 
this is simply the most fun you'll ever have with a documentary ! 
a very funny movie . 
watching haneke's film is , aptly enough , a challenge and a punishment . but watching huppert , a great actress tearing into a landmark role , is riveting . 
a cop story that understands the medium amazingly well . 
one of the best , most understated performances of [jack nicholson's] career . 
britney has been delivered to the big screen safe and sound , the way we like our 20-year-old superstar girls to travel on the fame freeway . 
those outside show business will enjoy a close look at people they don't really want to know . 
the kind of nervous film that will either give you a mild headache or exhilarate you . 
watching beanie and his gang put together his slasher video from spare parts and borrowed materials is as much fun as it must have been for them to make it . 
children may not understand everything that happens -- i'm not sure even miyazaki himself does -- but they will almost certainly be fascinated , and undoubtedly delighted . 
a fascinating and fun film . 
tadpole is a sophisticated , funny and good-natured treat , slight but a pleasure . 
this insightful , oscar-nominated documentary , in which children on both sides of the ever-escalating conflict have their say away from watchful parental eyes , gives peace yet another chance . 
i admired this work a lot . 
whether you're moved and love it , or bored or frustrated by the film , you'll still feel something . 
 . . . there are enough moments of heartbreaking honesty to keep one glued to the screen . 
my goodness , queen latifah has a lot to offer and she seemed to have no problem flaunting her natural gifts . she must have a very strong back . 
a smart , sweet and playful romantic comedy . 
australian actor/director john polson and award-winning english cinematographer giles nuttgens make a terrific effort at disguising the obvious with energy and innovation . 
without heavy-handedness , dong provides perspective with his intelligent grasp of human foibles and contradictions . 
solid , lump-in-the-throat family entertainment that derives its power by sticking to the facts . 
as an entertainment , the movie keeps you diverted and best of all , it lightens your wallet without leaving a sting . 
it is interesting and fun to see goodall and her chimpanzees on the bigger-than-life screen . 
it won't bust your gut -- and it's not intended to -- it's merely a blandly cinematic surgical examination of what makes a joke a joke . 
a somewhat crudely constructed but gripping , questing look at a person so racked with self-loathing , he becomes an enemy to his own race . 
it extends the writings of jean genet and john rechy , the films of fassbinder , perhaps even the nocturnal works of goya . 
narc may not get an 'a' for originality , but it wears its b-movie heritage like a badge of honor . 
with the film's striking ending , one realizes that we have a long way to go before we fully understand all the sexual permutations involved . 
[drumline] is entertaining for what it does , and admirable for what it doesn't do . 
at its best early on as it plays the culture clashes between the brothers . 
[a] rare , beautiful film . 
an unabashedly schmaltzy and thoroughly enjoyable true story . 
a thoughtful look at a painful incident that made headlines in 1995 . 
you walk out of the good girl with mixed emotions  disapproval of justine combined with a tinge of understanding for her actions . 
tsai ming-liang has taken his trademark style and refined it to a crystalline point . 
purely propaganda , a work of unabashed hero worship , it is nonetheless -- and likely inadvertently -- a timely and invaluable implicit reminder of the role that u . s . foreign policy has played in the rise of castro . 
now trimmed by about 20 minutes , this lavish three-year-old production has enough grandeur and scale to satisfy as grown-up escapism . 
we get some truly unique character studies and a cross-section of americana that hollywood couldn't possibly fictionalize and be believed . 
though this film can be clumsy , its ambitions are equally -- and admirably -- uncommercial . 
daring , mesmerizing and exceedingly hard to forget . 
the dangerous lives of altar boys' take on adolescence feels painfully true . 
moore's performance impresses almost as much as her work with haynes in 1995's safe . 
visits spy-movie territory like a novel you can't put down , examines a footnote to history seldom brought to light on the screen , and keeps you guessing from first frame to last . 
an absorbing , slice-of-depression life that touches nerves and rings true . 
mr . parker has brilliantly updated his source and grasped its essence , composing a sorrowful and hilarious tone poem about alienated labor , or an absurdist workplace sitcom . 
the result is something quite fresh and delightful . 
all but the most persnickety preteens should enjoy this nonthreatening but thrilling adventure . 
despite its many infuriating flaws -- not the least of which is amy's self-absorbed personality -- amy's o's honesty will win you over . 
this is one of polanski's best films . 
day is not a great bond movie , but it is a good bond movie , which still makes it much better than your typical bond knock-offs . 
polished korean political-action film is just as good -- and bad -- as hollywood action epics . is this progress ? 
elling , portrayed with quiet fastidiousness by per christian ellefsen , is a truly singular character , one whose frailties are only slightly magnified versions of the ones that vex nearly everyone . 
denis and co-writer michele petin's impeccable screenplay penetrates with a rawness that that is both unflinching and tantalizing . lead provocatuers testud and parmentier give superlative performances
an absorbing trip into the minds and motivations of people under stress as well as a keen , unsentimental look at variations on the theme of motherhood . 
i admired it , particularly that unexpected downer of an ending . 
the passions aroused by the discord between old and new cultures are set against the strange , stark beauty of the mideast desert , so lovingly and perceptively filmed that you can almost taste the desiccated air . 
remarkably accessible and affecting . 
never mind whether you buy the stuff about barris being a cia hit man . the kooky yet shadowy vision clooney sustains throughout is daring , inventive and impressive . 
a triumph of art direction over narrative , but what art direction ! 
behan himself knew how to spin a tale and one can't help but think he'd appreciate this attempt to turn his life into art . 
jir hubac's script is a gem . his characters are engaging , intimate and the dialogue is realistic and greatly moving . the scope of the silberstein family is large and we grow attached to their lives , full of strength , warmth and vitality . . 
moore's complex and important film is also , believe it or not , immensely entertaining , a david and goliath story that's still very much playing itself out . 
the additional storyline is interesting and entertaining , but it doesn't have the same magical quality as the beginning of the story . i like the new footage and still love the old stuff . 
though mama takes a bit too long to find its rhythm and a third-act plot development is somewhat melodramatic , its ribald humor and touching nostalgia are sure to please anyone in search of a jules and jim for the new millennium . 
you might not buy the ideas . but you'll definitely want the t-shirt . 
provides an intriguing window into the imagination and hermetic analysis of todd solondz . 
windtalkers is shapelessly gratifying , the kind of movie that invites you to pick apart its faults even as you have to admit that somehow it hit you where you live . 
presents an astute appraisal of middle american musical torpor and the desperate struggle to escape it . 
just what makes us happy , anyway ? 
a thoughtful , moving piece that faces difficult issues with honesty and beauty . 
one of the greatest romantic comedies of the past decade . 
you wouldn't call the good girl a date movie ( an anti-date movie is more like it ) , but when it's good , it's good and horrid . 
benefits from a strong performance from zhao , but it's dong jie's face you remember at the end . 
this is a film brimming with detail and nuance and one that speaks volumes about the ability of the human spirit to find solace in events that could easily crush it forever . 
the director , steven shainberg , has succeeded by focusing intently on his characters , making them quirky individuals rather than figures of fun . 
it ultimately stands forth as an important chronicle of the abuses of one of latin america's most oppressive regimes . 
the movie has a soft , percolating magic , a deadpan suspense . 
a well-made and often lovely depiction of the mysteries of friendship . 
using his audience as a figurative port-of-call , dong pulls his even-handed ideological ship to their dock for unloading , before he continues his longer journey still ahead . 
 . . . understands that a generation defines its music as much as the music defines a generation . 
the transporter is as lively and as fun as it is unapologetically dumb
as a witness to several greek-american weddings -- but , happily , a victim of none -- i can testify to the comparative accuracy of ms . vardalos' memories and insights . 
has it ever been possible to say that williams has truly inhabited a character ? it is now . 
by presenting an impossible romance in an impossible world , pumpkin dares us to say why either is impossible -- which forces us to confront what's possible and what we might do to make it so . 
an impressive debut for first-time writer-director mark romanek , especially considering his background is in music video . 
an incendiary , deeply thought-provoking look at one of the most peculiar ( and peculiarly venomous ) bigotries in our increasingly frightening theocracy
all the performances are top notch and , once you get through the accents , all or nothing becomes an emotional , though still positive , wrench of a sit . 
 " its successes are also tempered with elements which prove the direct antithesis of what it gets right . " 
it's solid and affecting and exactly as thought-provoking as it should be . 
this is such a dazzlingly self-assured directorial debut that it's hard to know what to praise first . 
parker holds true to wilde's own vision of a pure comedy with absolutely no meaning , and no desire to be anything but a polished , sophisticated entertainment that is in love with its own cleverness . 
mnch's genuine insight makes the film's occasional overindulgence forgivable . 
thankfully , the film , which skirts that rapidly deteriorating line between fantasy and reality . . . takes a tongue-in-cheek attitude even as it pushes the croc hunter agenda . 
ultimately , the message of trouble every day seems to be that all sexual desire disrupts life's stasis . 
if you're like me , a sucker for a good old fashion romance and someone who shamelessly loves to eat , then mostly martha offers all the perfect ingredients to more than satisfy your appetite . 
the film has just enough of everything -- re-enactments , archival footage , talking-head interviews -- and the music is simply sublime . 
there are a few stabs at absurdist comedy . . . but mostly the humor is of the sweet , gentle and occasionally cloying kind that has become an iranian specialty . 
a wonderful character-based comedy . 
it would be interesting to hear from the other side , but in talk to her , the women are down for the count . 
an endearingly offbeat romantic comedy with a great meet-cute gimmick . 
the unique tug-of-war with viewer expectations is undeniable , if not a pleasure in its own right . 
it uses an old-time formula , it's not terribly original and it's rather messy -- but you just have to love the big , dumb , happy movie my big fat greek wedding . 
it's almost impossible not to be moved by the movie's depiction of sacrifice and its stirring epilogue in post-soviet russia . 
who knows what exactly godard is on about in this film , but his words and images don't have to add up to mesmerize you . 
the tone is balanced , reflective and reasonable . 
the principals in this cast are all fine , but bishop and stevenson are standouts . 
it could change america , not only because it is full of necessary discussion points , but because it is so accessible that it makes complex politics understandable to viewers looking for nothing but energetic entertainment . 
what's most striking about this largely celebratory film . . . is the sense of isolation that permeates these bastions of individuality in an ikea world . 
 . . . if you're in a mind set for goofy comedy , the troopers will entertain with their gross outs , bawdy comedy and head games . 
somewhat blurred , but kinnear's performance is razor sharp . 
as a director , mr . ratliff wisely rejects the temptation to make fun of his subjects . 
for anyone who remembers the '60s or is interested in one man's response to stroke , ram dass : fierce grace is worth seeking out . 
intriguing and beautiful film , but those of you who read the book are likely to be disappointed . 
the new guy does have a heart . now , if it only had a brain . 
a savvy exploration of paranoia and insecurity in america's culture of fear . 
legendary irish writer brendan behan's memoir , borstal boy , has been given a loving screen transferral . 
the film's greatest asset is how much it's not just another connect-the-dots , spy-on-the-run picture . 
this clever caper movie has twists worthy of david mamet and is enormous fun for thinking audiences . 
it's one of the saddest films i have ever seen that still manages to be uplifting but not overly sentimental . 
morton is , as usual , brilliant . 
even with all those rough edges safely sanded down , the american insomnia is still pretty darned good . 
i don't know precisely what to make of steven soderbergh's full frontal , though that didn't stop me from enjoying much of it . 
the tug of war that ensues is as much a snapshot of modern china in microcosm as it is a crash course in movie mythology . 
nearly surreal , dabbling in french , this is no simple movie , and you'll be taking a risk if you choose to see it . i enjoyed the ride ( bumps and all ) , creamy depth , and ultimate theme . 
you could say that it's slow at times , you could say that a few of the characters act in ways that real people wouldn't , but one thing you couldn't say is that alias betty is predictable . 
asia authors herself as anna battista , an italian superstar and aspiring directress who just happens to be her own worst enemy . 
roman coppola may never become the filmmaker his dad was , but heck  few filmmakers will . but based on cq , i'll certainly be keeping an eye out for his next project . 
an amusing , breezily apolitical documentary about life on the campaign trail . 
high on melodrama . but it's emotionally engrossing , too , thanks to strong , credible performances from the whole cast . 
finally , a genre movie that delivers -- in a couple of genres , no less . 
it's not so much enjoyable to watch as it is enlightening to listen to new sides of a previous reality , and to visit with some of the people who were able to make an impact in the theater world . 
spielberg is the rare director who does not want to invite viewers to gawk at or applaud his special effects . he just wants them to be part of the action , the wallpaper of his chosen reality . here , thankfully , they are . 
post 9/11 the philosophical message of " personal freedom first " might not be as palatable as intended . 
hu and liu offer natural , matter-of-fact performances that glint with sorrow , longing and love . 
this bold and lyrical first feature from raja amari expands the pat notion that middle-aged women just wanna have fun into a rousing treatise of sensual empowerment . 
easier to respect than enthuse over , andersson's rigorous personal vision is not only distanced but distancing . 
girls gone wild and gone civil again
 . . . tunney is allowed to build an uncommonly human character , an almost real-live girl complete with trouble and hope . 
while this film is not in the least surprising , it is still ultimately very satisfying . think of it as a sort of comfort food for the mind . 
clever , brutal and strangely soulful movie . 
 . . . always remains movingly genuine . 
an intelligent fiction about learning through cultural clash . 
will grab your children by the imagination and amaze them and amuse them . 
a remarkable 179-minute meditation on the nature of revolution . 
those who would follow haneke on his creepy explorations . . . are rewarded by brutal , committed performances from huppert and magimel . 
an involving true story of a chinese actor who takes up drugs and winds up in an institution--acted mostly by the actual people involved . 
hands down the year's most thought-provoking film . but it pays a price for its intricate intellectual gamesmanship . 
it's a terrific american sports movie and dennis quaid is its athletic heart . 
this is such a high-energy movie where the drumming and the marching are so excellent , who cares if the story's a little weak . 
compelling revenge thriller , though somewhat weakened by a miscast leading lady . 
it's amazingly perceptive in its subtle , supportive but unsentimental look at the marks family . 
a whole lot foul , freaky and funny . 
family fare . 
attal mixes comedy with a serious exploration of ego and jealousy within a seemingly serene marriage . 
the diversity of the artists represented , both in terms of style and ethnicity , prevents the proceedings from feeling repetitious , as does the appropriately brief 40-minute running time . 
the pianist is a fine valedictory work for polanski , made richer by his own experiences , making his other movies somehow richer in the bargain . 
foster nails the role , giving a tight , focused performance illuminated by shards of feeling . 
even if you can't pronounce " gyro " correctly , you'll appreciate much of vardalos' humor , which transcends ethnic boundaries . 
is office work really as alienating as 'bartleby' so effectively makes it ? 
farrell . . . thankfully manages to outshine the role and successfully plays the foil to willis's world-weary colonel . 
audiences conditioned to getting weepy over saucer-eyed , downy-cheeked moppets and their empathetic caretakers will probably feel emotionally cheated by the film's tart , sugar-free wit . 
bennett's dramatization of her personal descent into post-breakup perdition has a morbid appeal that's tough to shake . 
an intriguing and entertaining introduction to johnson . 
as expected , sayles' smart wordplay and clever plot contrivances are as sharp as ever , though they may be overshadowed by some strong performances . 
a model of what films like this should be like . 
as weber and weissman demonstrate with such insight and celebratory verve , the cockettes weren't as much about gender , sexual preference or political agitprop as they were simply a triumph of the indomitable human will to rebel , connect and create . 
yeah , these flicks are just that damn good . isn't it great ? 
an unbelievably fun film just a leading man away from perfection . 
over-the-top and a bit ostentatious , this is a movie that's got oodles of style and substance . 
 . . . a poignant and powerful narrative that reveals that reading writing and arithmetic are not the only subjects to learn in life . 
nicely serves as an examination of a society in transition . 
boisterous , heartfelt comedy . 
a tender and touching drama , based on the true story of a troubled african-american's quest to come to terms with his origins , reveals the yearning we all have in our hearts for acceptance within the family circle . 
as a randy film about sexy people in gorgeous places being pushed and pulled ( literally and figuratively ) by desire . . . [sex and luca] makes for an arousing good time . 
absorbing character study by andr turpin . 
celebrated at sundance , this slight comedy of manners has winning performances and a glossy , glib charm that's hard to beat . 
renner's performance as dahmer is unforgettable , deeply absorbing . 
if no one singles out any of these performances as award-worthy , it's only because we would expect nothing less from this bunch . 
if you love reading and/or poetry , then by all means check it out . you'll probably love it . 
though of particular interest to students and enthusiast of international dance and world music , the film is designed to make viewers of all ages , cultural backgrounds and rhythmic ability want to get up and dance . 
energetic and boldly provocative . 
star wars is back in a major way . 
it's a movie -- and an album -- you won't want to miss . 
it's rare to find a film that dazzles the eye , challenges the brain , and satisfies our lust for fast-paced action , but minority report delivers all that and a whole lot more . 
while not all transitions to adulthood are so fraught , there's much truth and no small amount of poetry in girls can't swim . 
if there's nothing fresh about wannabes , which was written by mr . demeo , who produced and directed the film with charles a . addessi , much of the time the movie feels authentic . 
jacquot's tosca is a treat . 
by the end of no such thing the audience , like beatrice , has a watchful affection for the monster . 
if you liked such movies as notting hill , four weddings and a funeral , bridget jones' diary or high fidelity , then you won't want to miss about a boy . 
 . . . the gentle melding of drama and comedy makes " what time is it there ? " something the true film buff will enjoy . 
romanek keeps the film constantly taut . . . reflecting the character's instability with a metaphorical visual style and an unnerving , heartbeat-like score . 
i whole-heartedly recommend that everyone see this movie-- for its historical significance alone . 
hey , who else needs a shower ? 
longley has constructed a remarkably coherent , horrifically vivid snapshot of those turbulent days . 
although it bangs a very cliched drum at times , this crowd-pleaser's fresh dialogue , energetic music , and good-natured spunk are often infectious . 
often gruelling and heartbreaking to witness , but seldahl and wollter's sterling performances raise this far above the level of the usual maudlin disease movie . 
go see it and enjoy . 
the stunning , dreamlike visuals will impress even those viewers who have little patience for euro-film pretension . 
george clooney proves he's quite a talented director and sam rockwell shows us he's a world-class actor with confessions of a dangerous mind . 
there's a vastness implied in metropolis that is just breathtaking . 
murderous maids may well be the most comprehensive of these films and also strike closest to the truth . 
the people in dogtown and z-boys are so funny , aggressive and alive , you have to watch them because you can't wait to see what they do next . 
as green-guts monster movies go , it's a beaut . 
as bundy , michael reilly burke ( octopus 2 : river of fear ) has just the right amount of charisma and menace . 
a deceivingly simple film , one that grows in power in retrospect . 
ana is a vivid , vibrant individual and the movie's focus upon her makes it successful and accessible . 
a slick , skillful little horror film . 
a very witty take on change , risk and romance , and the film uses humour to make its points about acceptance and growth . 
[anderson] uses a hit-or-miss aesthetic that hits often enough to keep the film entertaining even if none of it makes a lick of sense . 
bubba ho-tep is a wonderful film with a bravura lead performance by bruce campbell that doesn't deserve to leave the building until everyone is aware of it . 
despite the long running time , the pace never feels slack -- there's no scene that screams " bathroom break ! " 
bullock does a good job here of working against her natural likability . 
a film of precious increments artfully camouflaged as everyday activities . 
kinnear gives a tremendous performance . 
the best movie of its kind since 'brazil . ' lucas , take notes . this is how you use special effects . 
 " frailty " has been written so well , that even a simple " goddammit ! " near the end takes on a whole other meaning . 
one hour photo is an intriguing snapshot of one man and his delusions ; it's just too bad it doesn't have more flashes of insight . 
kaufman creates an eerie sense of not only being there at the time of these events but the very night matthew was killed . 
chalk it up to my adoration for both de niro and murphy , but i had a pretty good time with this movie - despite its myriad flaws . 
its scenes and sensibility are all more than familiar , but it exudes a kind of nostalgic spy-movie charm and , at the same time , is so fresh and free of the usual thriller nonsense that it all seems to be happening for the first time . 
it represents better-than-average movie-making that doesn't demand a dumb , distracted audience . 
a charming yet poignant tale of the irrevocable ties that bind . 
an enchanting spectacular for potter fans anxious to ride the hogwarts express toward a new year of magic and mischief . 
the talents of the actors helps " moonlight mile " rise above its heart-on-its-sleeve writing . 
it's a humble effort , but spiced with wry humor and genuine pathos , especially between morgan and redgrave . 
this examination of aquatic life off the shores of the baja california peninsula of mexico offers an engrossing way to demonstrate the virtues of the imax format . 
dark and disturbing , but also surprisingly funny . 
the movie has an avalanche of eye-popping visual effects . 
starts off with a bang , but then fizzles like a wet stick of dynamite at the very end . it's still worth a look . 
most impressive , though , is the film's open-ended finale that refuses to entirely close its characters' emotional wounds . 
a hip ride into hyper-time , clockstoppers is a lively and enjoyable adventure for all ages at any time . 
grenier is terrific , bringing an unforced , rapid-fire delivery to toback's heidegger- and nietzsche-referencing dialogue . 
 . . . a polished and relatively sincere piece of escapism . 
the story wraps back around on itself in the kind of elegant symmetry that's rare in film today , but be warned : it's a slow slog to get there . 
the whole cast looks to be having so much fun with the slapstick antics and silly street patois , tossing around obscure expressions like bellini and mullinski , that the compact 86 minutes breezes by . 
 . . . has freaky scenes where the crew wonder if they're ghosts imagining themselves as alive . it's a sly wink to the others without becoming a postmodern joke , made creepy by its " men in a sardine can " warped logic . 
long after you leave justine , you'll be wondering what will happen to her and wishing her the best -- whatever that might mean . 
still pretentious and filled with subtext , but entertaining enough at 'face value' to recommend to anyone looking for something different . 
call me a wimp , but i cried , not once , but three times in this animated sweet film . 
notorious c . h . o . has oodles of vulgar highlights . 
an inspiring and heart-affecting film about the desperate attempts of vietnamese refugees living in u . s . relocation camps to keep their hopes alive in 1975 . 
the level of maturity displayed by this 33-year-old first-time feature director is astonishing , considering her inexperience and her subject matter . 
a splendid entertainment , young in spirit but accomplished in all aspects with the fullness of spirit and sense of ease that comes only with experience . 
disney's live-action division has a history of releasing cinematic flotsam , but this is one occasion when they have unearthed a rare gem . 
if the message seems more facile than the earlier films , the images have such a terrible beauty you may not care . 
whether kiss is a future cult classic or destined to be completely forgotten is open to question , but the risk-takers in the crowd should check it out and form their own opinion . 
there are moments in this account of the life of artist frida kahlo that are among cinema's finest this year . unfortunately , they're sandwiched in between the most impossibly dry account of kahlo's life imaginable . 
there are moments it can be heart-rending in an honest and unaffected ( and gentle ) way . 
stay clear of reminding yourself that it's a " true story " and you're likely to have one helluva time at the movies . 
there are just enough twists in the tale to make it far more satisfying than almost any horror film in recent memory . 
the sundance film festival has become so buzz-obsessed that fans and producers descend upon utah each january to ferret out the next great thing . 'tadpole' was one of the films so declared this year , but it's really more of the next pretty good thing . 
working from elliott's memoir , rohmer fashions the sort of delicate , articulate character- and- relationship study he's favored for decades . 
the story feels more like a serious read , filled with heavy doses of always enticing sayles dialogue . 
when it really counts . . . bloody sunday connects on a visceral level that transcends language . 
the crime matters less than the characters , although the filmmakers supply enough complications , close calls and double-crosses to satisfy us . 
[an] hilarious romantic comedy . 
the actors are fantastic . they are what makes it worth the trip to the theatre . 
ranging from funny to shattering and featuring some of the year's best acting , personal velocity gathers plenty of dramatic momentum . 
i complain all the time about seeing the same ideas repeated in films over and over again , but the bourne identity proves that a fresh take is always possible . 
recalls quiet freak-outs like l'avventura and repulsion . 
only an epic documentary could get it all down , and spike lee's jim brown : all american at long last gives its subject a movie worthy of his talents . 
 . . . as the story congeals you feel the pieces of the star wars saga falling into place in a way that makes your spine tingle with revelation and excitement . 
a great comedy filmmaker knows great comedy needn't always make us laugh . tim story's not there yet - but 'barbershop' shows he's on his way . 
the movie is one of the best examples of artful large format filmmaking you are likely to see anytime soon . 
lends itself to the narcotizing bland ( sinister , though not nearly so sinister as the biennial disney girl movie ) machinations of the biennial disney boy movie . 
well-written , nicely acted and beautifully shot and scored , the film works on several levels , openly questioning social mores while ensnaring the audience with its emotional pull . 
jason x has cheesy effects and a hoary plot , but its macabre , self-deprecating sense of humor makes up for a lot . 
[taymor] utilizes the idea of making kahlo's art a living , breathing part of the movie , often catapulting the artist into her own work . this isn't a new idea . it's been done before but never so vividly or with so much passion . 
an impressive if flawed effort that indicates real talent . 
two generations within one family test boundaries in this intelligent and restrained coming-of-age drama . 
it sounds sick and twisted , but the miracle of shainberg's film is that it truly is romance
disturbing and brilliant documentary . 
 . . . mesmerizing , an eye-opening tour of modern beijing culture in a journey of rebellion , retreat into oblivion and return . 
one of the best examples of how to treat a subject , you're not fully aware is being examined , much like a photo of yourself you didn't know was being taken . 
not too far below the gloss you can still feel director denis villeneuve's beating heart and the fondness he has for his characters . 
as if to prove a female director can make a movie with no soft edges , kathryn bigelow offers no sugar-coating or interludes of lightness . her film is unrelentingly claustrophobic and unpleasant . 
[villeneuve] seems to realize intuitively that even morality is reduced to an option by the ultimate mysteries of life and death . 
the result is mesmerizing -- filled with menace and squalor . 
fisher has bared his soul and confronted his own shortcomings here in a way . . . that feels very human and very true to life . 
it's fun , but the code-talk will fly right over everyone's head
bourne , jason bourne . he can scale a building like a super hero , he can out-stealth any agent , he'll get the girl . he's super spy ! 
what makes the movie a comedy is the way it avoids the more serious emotions involved . 
an exhilarating experience . 
this cuddly sequel to the 1999 hit is a little more visually polished , a little funnier , and a little more madcap . 
the pleasures of super troopers may be fleeting , but they'll register strongly with anybody who still retains a soft spot for precollegiate humor . 
the film is exhilarating to watch because sandler , liberated from the constraints of formula , reveals unexpected depths as an actor . 
a distant , even sterile , yet compulsively watchable look at the sordid life of hogan's heroes star bob crane . 
the film delivers not just the full assault of reno's immense wit and insight , but a time travel back to what it felt like during those unforgettably uncertain days . 
what might have been a predictably heartwarming tale is suffused with complexity . 
sound the trumpets : for the first time since desperately seeking susan , madonna doesn't suck as an actress . 
although very much like the first movie based on j . k . rowling's phenomenal fantasy best sellers , this second go-round possesses a quite pleasing , headlong thrust and a likably delinquent attitude . 
[ " take care of my cat " ] is an honestly nice little film that takes us on an examination of young adult life in urban south korea through the hearts and minds of the five principals . 
as the story moves inexorably through its seven day timeframe , the picture becomes increasingly mesmerizing . 
maguire is a surprisingly effective peter/spider-man . 
not a cozy or ingratiating work , but it's challenging , sometimes clever , and always interesting , and those are reasons enough to see it . 
the film runs on equal parts of innocence and wisdom -- wisdom that comes with experience . it has fun being grown up . 
like old myths and wonder tales spun afresh . 
rarely do films come along that are as intelligent , exuberant , and moving as monsoon wedding . 
one scarcely needs the subtitles to enjoy this colorful action farce . 
quite funny for the type of movie it is . . . 
it's often infuriatingly glib and posturing , and yet it has been made with great evident care and manages to deliver up the man in a way to arouse further curiosity in even the most unknowing viewer . 
one of [herzog's] least inspired works . 
this boisterous comedy serves up a cruel reminder of the fate of hundreds of thousands of chinese , one which can only qualify as a terrible tragedy . 
elling really is about a couple of crazy guys , and it's therapeutic to laugh along with them . 
never [sinks] into exploitation . 
an irresistible combination of a rousing good story set on a truly grand scale . 
there's no denying the physically spectacular qualities of the film . . . or the emotional integrity of the performances . 
few films this year have been as resolute in their emotional nakedness . 
exquisitely acted and masterfully if preciously interwoven [the film] addresses in a fascinating , intelligent manner the intermingling of race , politics and local commerce . 
stevenson's performance is at once clueless and fiercely committed , a volatile combination . 
this is a very fine movie -- go see it . 
as shaky as the plot is , kaufman's script is still memorable for some great one-liners . 
despite its flaws , secretary stays in your head and makes you question your own firmly held positions . 
one of those rare , exhilarating cinematic delights that gets even better in hindsight , as you mull over its every nuance in your mind . 
not everything works , but the average is higher than in mary and most other recent comedies . 
a byzantine melodrama that stimulates the higher brain functions as well as the libido . 
a sensitive and expertly acted crowd-pleaser that isn't above a little broad comedy and a few unabashedly sentimental tears . 
the film's sharp , often mischievous sense of humor will catch some off guard . . . 
does what a fine documentary does best : it extends a warm invitation into an unfamiliar world , then illuminates it fully and allows the larger implications of the journey to sink in unobtrusively . 
almost every scene in this film is a gem that could stand alone , a perfectly realized observation of mood , behavior and intent . 
a psychologically rich and suspenseful moral thriller with a stellar performance by al pacino . 
you won't believe much of it , but you will laugh at the audacity , at the who's who casting and the sheer insanity of it all . 
this version's no classic like its predecessor , but its pleasures are still plentiful . 
the bourne identity is what summer screen escapism used to be in the decades when it was geared more to grownups . 
provide[s] nail-biting suspense and credible characters without relying on technology-of-the-moment technique or pretentious dialogue . 
if it tried to do anything more , it would fail and perhaps explode , but at this level of manic whimsy , it is just about right . 
too sincere to exploit its subjects and too honest to manipulate its audience . 
the saturation bombing of reggio's images and glass' evocative music . . . ultimately leaves viewers with the task of divining meaning . 
for all its serious sense of purpose . . . [it] finds a way to lay bare the tragedies of its setting with a good deal of warmth and humor . 
a depressing confirmation of everything those of us who don't object to the description " unelected " have suspected all along : george w . bush is an incurious , uncharismatic , overgrown frat boy with a mean streak a mile wide . 
this road movie gives you emotional whiplash , and you'll be glad you went along for the ride . 
sure , it's more of the same , but as the film proves , that's not always a bad thing . 
a lighthearted , feel-good film that embraces the time-honored truth that the most powerful thing in life is love . 
a bowel-curdling , heart-stopping recipe for terror . 
daughter from danang is a film that should be seen by all , especially those who aren't aware of , or have forgotten about the unmentioned victims of war . 
zhang yimou delivers warm , genuine characters who lie not through dishonesty , but because they genuinely believe it's the only way to bring happiness to their loved ones . 
 . . . breathes surprising new life into the familiar by amalgamating genres and adding true human complexity to its not-so-stock characters . 
' . . . both hokey and super-cool , and definitely not in a hurry , so sit back , relax and have a few laughs while the little ones get a fuzzy treat . '
a pleasant romantic comedy . 
it's a count for our times . 
greengrass has delivered an undoubted stylistic tour-de-force , and has managed elements such as sound and cinematography with skill
smith's point is simple and obvious -- people's homes are extensions of themselves , and particularly eccentric people have particularly eccentric living spaces -- but his subjects are charmers . 
a romantic comedy , yes , but one with characters who think and talk about their goals , and are working on hard decisions . 
vividly conveys both the pitfalls and the pleasures of over-the-top love . 
 . . . a weak , manipulative , pencil-thin story that is miraculously able to entertain anyway . 
a pro-fat farce that overcomes much of its excessive moral baggage thanks to two appealing lead performances . 
for the first two-thirds of this sparklingly inventive and artful , always fast and furious tale , kids will go happily along for the ride . 
majidi's poetic love story is a ravishing consciousness-raiser , if a bit draggy at times . 
the smartest bonehead comedy of the summer . 
effectively feeds our senses with the chilling sights and sounds from within the camp to create a completely numbing experience . 
i love the way that it took chances and really asks you to take these great leaps of faith and pays off . 
in his debut as a film director , denzel washington delivers a lean and engaging work . 
only two words will tell you what you know when deciding to see it : anthony . hopkins . 
the movie's quiet affirmation of neighborhood values gives it an honest , lived-in glow . 
a teasing drama whose relentless good-deed/bad-deed reversals are just interesting enough to make a sinner like me pray for an even more interesting , less symmetrical , less obviously cross-shaped creation . 
hayek is stunning as frida and . . . a star-making project . 
it's both a necessary political work and a fascinating documentary . . . 
hilarious , acidic brit comedy . 
as a revenge thriller , the movie is serviceable , but it doesn't really deliver the delicious guilty pleasure of the better film versions . 
an ironic speculation on democracy in a culture unaccustomed to it . 
it's not life-affirming  its vulgar and mean , but i liked it . 
several degrees shy of the gross-out contests one expects from current teen fare . 
the inherent strength of the material as well as the integrity of the filmmakers gives this coming-of-age story restraint as well as warmth . 
led by griffin's smartly nuanced performance and enthusiasm , the cast has a lot of fun with the material . 
tuck everlasting achieves a delicate balance of romantic innocence and philosophical depth . 
a gentle blend of present day testimonials , surviving footage of burstein and his family performing , historical archives , and telling stills . 
a generation x artifact , capturing a brief era of insanity in the sports arena that surely cannot last . 
possession is elizabeth barrett browning meets nancy drew , and it's directed by . . . neil labute . hmm . 
an uneven but intriguing drama that is part homage and part remake of the italian masterpiece . 
windtalkers celebrates the human spirit and packs an emotional wallop . 
having never been a huge fan of dickens' 800-page novel , it surprised me how much pleasure i had watching mcgrath's version . 
the best thing the film does is to show us not only what that mind looks like , but how the creative process itself operates . 
for all its failed connections , divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood is nurturing , in a gauzy , dithering way . 
this is pretty dicey material . but some unexpected zigs and zags help . 
compellingly watchable . 
the filmmakers skillfully evoke the sense of menace that nature holds for many urban dwellers . 
the laser-projected paintings provide a spell-casting beauty , while russell and dreyfus are a romantic pairing of hearts , preciously exposed as history corners them . 
you don't have to be an especially tough grader to give a charitable b-minus to the emperor's club . 
this romantic thriller is steeped in the atmosphere of wartime england , and ably captures the speech patterns , moral codes and ideals of the 1940s . 
divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood may not be exactly divine , but it's definitely -- defiantly -- ya ya , what with all of those terrific songs and spirited performances . 
viewed on its own terms , treasure planet is better-than-average family entertainment , but true fans of the stevenson's novel will likely prefer disney's more faithful 1950 live-action swashbuckling classic . 
a journey through memory , a celebration of living , and a sobering rumination on fatality , classism , and ignorance . 
resourceful and ingenious entertainment . 
 " antwone fisher " is an earnest , by-the-numbers effort by washington . it won't rock any boats but is solid meat-and-potatoes filmmaking . 
a historical epic with the courage of its convictions about both scope and detail . 
we need [moore's] noisy , cocky energy , his passion and class consciousness ; we need his shticks , we need his stones . 
although the editing might have been tighter , hush ! sympathetically captures the often futile lifestyle of young people in modern japan . 
[gai] comes closer to any actress i can remember to personifying independence in its purest and , yes , most intimidating form . 
these are lives worth watching , paths worth following . 
it's rather like a lifetime special -- pleasant , sweet and forgettable . 
a moody horror/thriller elevated by deft staging and the director's well-known narrative gamesmanship . 
as a singular character study , it's perfect . it's also the year's sweetest movie . 
a graceful , contemplative film that gradually and artfully draws us into a world where the personal and the political get fatally intertwined . 
while not as aggressively impressive as its american counterpart , " in the bedroom , " moretti's film makes its own , quieter observations
the experience of watching blobby old-school cgi animation in this superlarge format is just surreal enough to be diverting . 
time changer may not be the most memorable cinema session but its profound self-evaluation message about our fragile existence and the absence of spiritual guidance should at least invade an abundance of mindsets
 " the emperor's new clothes " begins with a simple plan . . . . well , at least that's the plan . 
haynes has so fanatically fetishized every bizarre old-movie idiosyncrasy with such monastic devotion you're not sure if you should applaud or look into having him committed . 
[director peter] jackson and his crew have so steeped themselves in the majesty of tolkien's writing that every frame produces new joys , whether you're a fan of the books or not . 
while the glass slipper doesn't quite fit , pumpkin is definitely a unique modern fairytale . 
the drama is played out with such aching beauty and truth that it brings tears to your eyes . 
an exciting and involving rock music doc , a smart and satisfying look inside that tumultuous world . 
an offbeat , sometimes gross and surprisingly appealing animated film about the true meaning of the holidays . 
this version incarnates the prophetic book in a way even its exacting author might admire . 
sometimes , nothing satisfies like old-fashioned swashbuckling . and in this regard , on guard delivers . 
 . . . ambition is in short supply in the cinema , and egoyan tackles his themes and explores his characters' crises with seriousness and compassion . 
an impossible romance , but we root for the patronized iranian lad . 
like dickens with his passages , mcgrath crafts quite moving scenes throughout his resolutely dramatic variation on the novel . 
there's a disreputable air about the whole thing , and that's what makes it irresistible . 
an exceedingly clever piece of cinema . another great what you don't see' is much more terrifying than what you do see thriller , coupled with some arresting effects , incandescent tones and stupendous performances
a carefully structured scream of consciousness that is tortured and unsettling--but unquestionably alive . 
a quietly reflective and melancholy new zealand film about an eventful summer in a 13-year-old girl's life . 
cute , funny , heartwarming digitally animated feature film with plenty of slapstick humor for the kids , lots of in-jokes for the adults and heart enough for everyone . 
very solid , very watchable first feature for director peter sheridan
a budget affair that exposes the generally sad existence of the bedouins while providing a precious twinkle of insight into their lives . 
it suggests the wide-ranging effects of media manipulation , from the kind of reporting that is done by the supposedly liberal media . . . to the intimate and ultimately tragic heartache of maverick individuals like hatfield and hicks . 
workmanlike , maybe , but still a film with all the elements that made the other three great , scary times at the movies . 
a pleasant enough comedy that should have found a summer place . 
branagh , in his most forceful non-shakespeare screen performance , grounds even the softest moments in the angry revolt of his wit . 
though the violence is far less sadistic than usual , the film is typical miike : fast , furious and full of off-the-cuff imaginative flourishes . 
compelling as it is exotic , fast runner has a plot that rivals shakespeare for intrigue , treachery and murder . 
what it lacks in originality it makes up for in intelligence and b-grade stylishness . 
the warm presence of zhao benshan makes the preposterous lying hero into something more than he reasonably should be . 
this is as powerful a set of evidence as you'll ever find of why art matters , and how it can resonate far beyond museum walls and through to the most painfully marginal lives . 
director rob marshall went out gunning to make a great one . 
skip work to see it at the first opportunity . 
bow's best moments are when he's getting busy on the basketball court because that's when he really scores . 
offers enough playful fun to entertain the preschool set while embracing a wholesome attitude . 
in the end , punch-drunk love is one of those films that i wanted to like much more than i actually did . sometimes , that's enough . 
an intimate , good-humored ethnic comedy like numerous others but cuts deeper than expected . 
ice cube holds the film together with an engaging and warm performance . . . 
both deeply weird and charmingly dear . 
as blunt as it is in depicting child abuse , el bola is a movie steeped in an ambiguity that lends its conflicts a symbolic resonance . 
despite a story predictable enough to make the sound of music play like a nail-biting thriller , its heart is so much in the right place it is difficult to get really peeved at it . 
it's a masterpiece . 
an incredibly low-rent danish film , it brings a group of people together in a sweet and charming way , if a little convenient
it's the cinematic equivalent of a good page-turner , and even if it's nonsense , its claws dig surprisingly deep . 
director nalin pan doesn't do much to weigh any arguments one way or the other . he simply presents his point of view that ayurveda works . no question . 
what " empire " lacks in depth it makes up for with its heart . 
claude miller airs out a tight plot with an easy pace and a focus on character drama over crime-film complications . 
what full frontal lacks in thematic coherence it largely makes up for as loosey-goosey , experimental entertainment . still , i'm not quite sure what the point is
rich in detail , gorgeously shot and beautifully acted , les destinees is , in its quiet , epic way , daring , inventive and refreshingly unusual . 
 ( a ) hollywood sheen bedevils the film from the very beginning . . . ( but ) lohman's moist , deeply emotional eyes shine through this bogus veneer . . . 
do we really need a 77-minute film to tell us exactly why a romantic relationship between a 15-year-old boy and a 40-year-old woman doesn't work ? 
ford deserves to be remembered at oscar time for crafting this wonderful portrait of a conflicted soldier . 
the film's 45-minute running time stops shy of overkill , though viewers may be more exhausted than the athletes onscreen . 
don't expect any surprises in this checklist of teamwork cliches . . . 
as adapted by kevin molony from simon leys' novel " the death of napoleon " and directed by alan taylor , napoleon's journey is interesting but his parisian rebirth is stillborn
the movie addresses a hungry need for pg-rated , nonthreatening family movies , but it doesn't go too much further . 
this warm and gentle romantic comedy has enough interesting characters to fill several movies , and its ample charms should win over the most hard-hearted cynics . 
a yarn that respects the marvel version without becoming ensnared by it . 
this is a happy throwback to the time when cartoons were cinema's most idiosyncratic form instead of one of its most predictable . 
complex , affecting and uniquely almodvar , the film evokes strong emotions and pushes viewers to question their deepest notions of moral right and wrong . 
good ol' urban legend stuff . 
not so much a movie as a picture book for the big screen . this isn't my favorite in the series , still i enjoyed it enough to recommend . 
it's one of the most honest films ever made about hollywood . 
it is a film that will have people walking out halfway through , will encourage others to stand up and applaud , and will , undoubtedly , leave both camps engaged in a ferocious debate for years to come . 
on its own cinematic terms , it successfully showcases the passions of both the director and novelist byatt . 
light , silly , photographed with colour and depth , and rather a good time . 
pray's film works well and will appeal even to those who aren't too familiar with turntablism . 
troubling and powerful . 
good movie . good actress . but if you expect light romantic comedy , good gosh , will you be shocked . 
it has the courage to wonder about big questions with sincerity and devotion . it risks seeming slow and pretentious , because it thinks the gamble is worth the promise . 
with youthful high spirits , tautou remains captivating throughout michele's religious and romantic quests , and she is backed by a likable cast . 
it's an example of sophisticated , challenging filmmaking that stands , despite its noticeable lack of emotional heft , in welcome contrast to the indulgent dead-end experimentation of the director's previous full frontal . 
a very funny look at how another culture handles the process of courting and marriage . 
but tongue-in-cheek preposterousness has always been part of for the most part wilde's droll whimsy helps " being earnest " overcome its weaknesses and parker's creative interference . . . 
much of the movie's charm lies in the utter cuteness of stuart and margolo . their computer-animated faces are very expressive . 
the path ice age follows most closely , though , is the one established by warner bros . giant chuck jones , who died a matter of weeks before the movie's release . 
anchored by a terrific performance by abbass , satin rouge shows that the idea of women's self-actualization knows few continental divides . 
awkward but sincere and , ultimately , it wins you over . 
smith profiles five extraordinary american homes , and because the owners seem fully aware of the uses and abuses of fame , it's a pleasure to enjoy their eccentricities . 
though the plot is predictable , the movie never feels formulaic , because the attention is on the nuances of the emotional development of the delicate characters . 
sam jones became a very lucky filmmaker the day wilco got dropped from their record label , proving that one man's ruin may be another's fortune . 
goyer's screenplay and direction are thankfully understated , and he has drawn excellent performances from his cast . 
binoche and magimel are perfect in these roles . 
when your leading ladies are a couple of screen-eating dominatrixes like goldie hawn and susan sarandon at their raunchy best , even hokum goes down easily . 
while undercover brother is definitely one for the masses , it's also full of sharp , smart satire . 
gets under the skin of a man who has just lost his wife . 
it may not be " last tango in paris " but . . . 
no wonder they're talking about " talk to her . " it's astonishing . 
for its seriousness , high literary aspirations and stunning acting , the film can only be applauded . 
look , this is a terrific flick replete with dazzling camera-work , dancing and music . 
it is inspirational in characterizing how people from such diverse cultures share the same human and spiritual needs . 
it's fairly self-aware in its dumbness . 
a triumph , relentless and beautiful in its downbeat darkness . 
tailored to entertain ! 
a compelling , moving film that respects its audience and its source material . 
has a plot full of twists upon knots . . . and a nonstop parade of mock-tarantino scuzbag types that starts out clever but veers into overkill . 
a work of astonishing delicacy and force . 
the film benefits greatly from a less manic tone than its predecessor , as cho appears to have settled comfortably into her skin . 
for the first time in several years , mr . allen has surpassed himself with the magic he's spun with the hollywood empress of ms . leoni's ellie . 
isn't quite the equal of woo's best earlier work , but it's easily his finest american film . . . comes close to recapturing the brilliance of his hong kong films . 
the film hinges on its performances , and both leads are up to the task . 
an intelligent , earnest , intimate film that drops the ball only when it pauses for blunt exposition to make sure you're getting its metaphysical point . 
a modest pleasure that accomplishes its goals with ease and confidence . 
a breezy , diverting , conventional , well-acted tale of two men locked in an ongoing game of cat-and-cat . 
what jackson has accomplished here is amazing on a technical level . 
as teen movies go , " orange county " is a refreshing change
makes s&m seem very romantic , and maggie gyllenhaal is a delight . 
a deliciously mordant , bitter black comedy . 
although life or something like it is very much in the mold of feel-good movies , the cast and director stephen herek's polished direction pour delightfully piquant wine from aged bottles . 
it is risky , intelligent , romantic and rapturous from start to finish . 
the movie sticks much closer to hornby's drop-dead confessional tone than the film version of high fidelity did . 
a pleasant ramble through the sort of idoosyncratic terrain that errol morris has often dealt with . . . it does possess a loose , lackadaisical charm . 
 . . . spiced with humor ( 'i speak fluent flatula , ' advises denlopp after a rather , er , bubbly exchange with an alien deckhand ) and witty updatings ( silver's parrot has been replaced with morph , a cute alien creature who mimics everyone and everything around ) 
this is a raw and disturbing tale that took five years to make , and the trio's absorbing narrative is a heart-wrenching showcase indeed . 
a beautiful and haunting examination of the stories we tell ourselves to make sense of the mundane horrors of the world . 
aside from being the funniest movie of the year , simone , andrew niccol's brilliant anti-hollywood satire , has a wickedly eccentric enchantment to it . 
watstein handily directs and edits around his screenplay's sappier elements . . . and sustains off the hook's buildup with remarkable assuredness for a first-timer . 
just another fish-out-of-water story that barely stays afloat . 
there's an energy to y tu mam tambin . much of it comes from the brave , uninhibited performances by its lead actors . 
it's the kind of pigeonhole-resisting romp that hollywood too rarely provides . 
reinforces the often forgotten fact of the world's remarkably varying human population and mindset , and its capacity to heal using creative , natural and ancient antidotes . 
you can feel the heat that ignites this gripping tale , and the humor and humanity that root it in feeling . 
it's hard not to be seduced by [witherspoon's] charisma , even in this run-of-the-mill vehicle , because this girl knows how to drive it to the max . 
a movie for 11-year-old boys with sports dreams of their own and the preteen girls who worship lil' bow wow . 
a refreshingly authentic coming-of-age tale . 
if you're not into the pokemon franchise , this fourth animated movie in four years won't convert you -- or even keep your eyes open . but fans should have fun meeting a brand-new pokemon called celebi . 
from the big giant titles of the opening credits to elmer bernstein's perfectly melodic score , haynes gets just about everything right . 
whether seen on a 10-inch television screen or at your local multiplex , the edge-of-your-seat , educational antics of steve irwin are priceless entertainment . 
has a shambling charm . . . a cheerfully inconsequential diversion . 
ferrara directs the entire film with the kind of detachment that makes any given frame look like a family's custom-made christmas card . 
the movie has lots of dancing and fabulous music . there are slow and repetitive parts , but it has just enough spice to keep it interesting . 
an incredibly clever and superbly paced caper filled with scams within scams within scams . 
there's not much more to this adaptation of the nick hornby novel than charm -- effortless , pleasurable , featherweight charm . 
as a belated nod to some neglected all-stars , standing in the shadows of motown is cultural history of the best kind : informative , revealing and richly entertaining . 
even if the ride's a little bumpy , with a final lap that's all too suspiciously smooth , you gotta give director roger michell , best known for the superfluous notting hill , credit for trying . 
not as distinctive or even as humorous as its needs to be to stand out , but it has clearly been made with affection and care . 
this is carion's debut feature but his script and direction hums with a confidence that many spend entire careers trying to reach . 
an intelligent , moving and invigorating film . 
ofrece una buena oportunidad de cultura ( aunque sea condensada ) que bien vale la pena aprovechar . 
 . . . one of the most ingenious and entertaining thrillers i've seen in quite a long time . 
a clever blend of fact and fiction . 
a vivid cinematic portrait . 
hilarious , touching and wonderfully dyspeptic . 
es divertida , visualmente espectacular y muy entretenida . simple y sencillamente te sorprender . 
theirs is a simple and heart-warming story , full of mirth that should charm all but the most cynical . 
the film is an enjoyable family film -- pretty much aimed at any youngster who loves horses . 
a frisky and fresh romantic comedy exporing sexual politics and the challenges of friendships between women . 
it's a good film -- not a classic , but odd , entertaining and authentic . 
flavorful and romantic , you could call this how martha got her groove back -- assuming , that is , she ever had one to begin with . 
happily for mr . chin -- though unhappily for his subjects -- the invisible hand of the marketplace wrote a script that no human screenwriter could have hoped to match . 
thurman and lewis are hilarious throughout . 
the plot is so amusingly contrived and outlandish in its coincidences that no one could ever mistake it for anything resembling reality
hits one out of the park for the 'they don't make 'em like that anymore' department . 
it dares to be a little different , and that shading is what makes it worthwhile . 
[fessenden] is much more into ambiguity and creating mood than he is for on screen thrills
the comic performances are all spot on , especially lee ross's turn as ken . 
a compelling journey . . . and " his best friend remembers " is up there with the finest of specials . 
at nearly three hours , the whole of safe conduct is less than the sum of its parts . 
the hours makes you examine your own life in much the same way its characters do , and the experience is profound . the hours is what movies are supposed to be . . . 
a bold and subversive film that cuts across the grain of what is popular and powerful in this high-tech age , speaking its truths with spellbinding imagery and the entrancing music of philip glass . 
pretty darn good , despite its smarty-pants aura . 
so young , so smart , such talent , such a wise * * * . 
woo's fights have a distinct flair . his warriors collide in balletic explosion that implies an underlying order throughout the chaos . 
barney has created a tour de force that is weird , wacky and wonderful . 
the ending does leave you unfulfilled , but these are performances to enjoy in a memorable ensemble piece . 
 . . . an agreeable time-wasting device -- but george pal's low-tech 1960 version still rules the epochs . 
it's a brave attempt to tap into the heartbeat of the world , a salute to the universal language of rhythm and a zippy sampling of sounds . 
offers an unusual opportunity to observe the inequities in the death penalty , not just the inherent immorality but also the haphazard administration of it and public misperception of how the whole thing works . 
i don't think i've been as entranced and appalled by an asian film since shinya tsukamoto's iron man . 
it is so refreshing to see robin williams turn 180 degrees from the string of insultingly innocuous and sappy fiascoes he's been making for the last several years . 
director benoit jacquot , making his first opera-to-film translation with tosca , conveys the heaving passion of puccini's famous love-jealousy- murder-suicide fandango with great cinematic innovation . 
lilia's transformation from strict mother to sensual siren is superficially preposterous , but abbas infuses the role with an unimpeachable core of emotional truth . 
frida's artistic brilliance is undeniable -- it's among the most breathtakingly designed films i've ever seen . 
the perfect film for those who like sick comedies that can be snide . 
'charly' will divide its audience in two separate groups , those reaching for more tissues and those begging for mercy . . . 
nervy and sensitive , it taps into genuine artistic befuddlement , and at the same time presents a scathing indictment of what drives hollywood . 
a marvellous journey from childhood idealism to adolescent self-absorption . 
the film is just a big , gorgeous , mind-blowing , breath-taking mess . 
sharp , lively , funny and ultimately sobering film . 
though the film's scenario is certainly not earthshaking , this depiction of fluctuating female sexuality has two winning lead performances and charm to spare . 
a worthy tribute to a great humanitarian and her vibrant 'co-stars . '
a recent favourite at sundance , this white-trash satire will inspire the affection of even those unlucky people who never owned a cassette of def leppard's pyromania . 
the recording session is the only part of the film that is enlightening -- and how appreciative you are of this depends on your level of fandom . 
occasionally funny and consistently odd , and it works reasonably well as a star vehicle for zhao . 
bright seems alternately amused and disgusted with this material , and he can't help throwing in a few of his own touches . 
the 3d images only enhance the film's otherworldly quality , giving it a strange combo of you-are-there closeness with the disorienting unreality of the seemingly broken-down fourth wall of the movie screen . 
andersson creates a world that's at once surreal and disturbingly familiar ; absurd , yet tremendously sad . 
it's predictable , but it jumps through the expected hoops with style and even some depth . 
often hilarious , well-shot and , importantly , entertaining , hell house is a fascinating document of an event that has to be seen to be believed . 
de oliveira creates an emotionally rich , poetically plump and visually fulsome , but never showy , film whose bittersweet themes are reinforced and brilliantly personified by michel piccoli . 
 . . . an inviting piece of film . 
the film's real appeal won't be to clooney fans or adventure buffs , but to moviegoers who enjoy thinking about compelling questions with no easy answers . 
the fact that the rookie is a nearly impeccable cinematic experience -- and a wonderful all-ages triumph besides -- is a miracle akin to the story the film portrays . 
a deviant topical comedy which is funny from start to finish . 
a startling and fresh examination of how the bike still remains an ambiguous icon in chinese society . 
a highly intriguing thriller , coupled with some ingenious plot devices and some lavishly built settings . . it's a worthwhile tutorial in quantum physics and slash-dash
as hugh grant says repeatedly throughout the movie , 'lovely ! brilliant ! '
cho's fearless in picking apart human foibles , not afraid to lay her life bare in front of an audience . her delivery and timing are flawless . 
works because , for the most part , it avoids the stupid cliches and formulaic potholes that befall its brethren . 
at its best , the good girl is a refreshingly adult take on adultery . . . 
an amazing and incendiary movie that dives straight into the rough waters of contradiction . 
about nowhere kids who appropriated turfs as they found them and become self-made celebrity athletes -- a low-down version of the american dream . 
occasionally , in the course of reviewing art-house obscurities and slam-bam action flicks , a jaded critic smacks into something truly new . 
a miniscule little bleep on the film radar , but one that many more people should check out
desta vez , columbus capturou o pomo de ouro . 
 " 13 conversations " holds its goodwill close , but is relatively slow to come to the point . 
a slick , well-oiled machine , exquisitely polished and upholstered . 
don't plan on the perfect ending , but sweet home alabama hits the mark with critics who escaped from a small town life . 
it has a subtle way of getting under your skin and sticking with you long after it's over . 
the movie stays afloat thanks to its hallucinatory production design . 
it helps that the central performers are experienced actors , and that they know their roles so well . 
a provocative movie about loss , anger , greed , jealousy , sickness and love . 
worth the effort to watch . 
that rara avis : the intelligent romantic comedy with actual ideas on its mind . 
boisterous and daft documentary . 
hawke draws out the best from his large cast in beautifully articulated portrayals that are subtle and so expressive they can sustain the poetic flights in burdette's dialogue . 
a work of the utmost subtlety and perception , it marks the outstanding feature debut of writer-director eric byler , who understands the power of the implicit and the virtues of simplicity and economy . 
full frontal is the antidote for soderbergh fans who think he's gone too commercial since his two oscar nominated films in 2000
it turns out to be a cut above the norm , thanks to some clever writing and sprightly acting . 
you might not want to hang out with samantha , but you'll probably see a bit of yourself in her unfinished story . 
a work of intricate elegance , literary lyricism and profound common sense . 
it's as close as we'll ever come to looking through a photographer's viewfinder as he works . 
thoughtful , provocative and entertaining . 
witty , touching and well paced . 
lee jeong-hyang tells it so lovingly and films it so beautifully that i couldn't help being captivated by it . 
you have to pay attention to follow all the stories , but they're each interesting . the movie is well shot and very tragic , and one to ponder after the credits roll . 
enjoy it for what it is ; you can hate yourself later . 
a map of the inner rhythms of love and jealousy and sacrifice drawn with a master's steady stroke . 
ms sarcstica , divertida y demencial que su predecesora , es un buen ejemplo de lo que es el cine de entretenimiento puro y sin complejos . 
a psychological thriller with a smart script and an obsessive-compulsive's attention to detail . 
often hilarious . 
grant gets to display his cadness to perfection , but also to show acting range that may surprise some who thought light-hearted comedy was his forte . 
at times funny and at other times candidly revealing , it's an intriguing look at two performers who put themselves out there because they love what they do . 
westfeldt and juergensen exude a chemistry and comfort level that's both saucy and endearing . 
harsh , effective documentary on life in the israeli-occupied palestinian territories . 
the film is all a little lit crit 101 , but it's extremely well played and often very funny . 
earns its laughs from stock redneck 'types' and from the many , many moments when we recognize even without the elizabethan prose , the play behind the thing . 
a real story about real people living their lives concerned about the future of an elderly , mentally handicapped family member . 
it's absolutely spooky how lillard channels the shagster right down to the original casey kasem-furnished voice . 
a dream cast of solid female talent who build a seamless ensemble . there isn't a weak or careless performance amongst them . 
smart science fiction for grown-ups , with only a few false steps along the way . 
it's a refreshing change from the self-interest and paranoia that shape most american representations of castro . 
often moving and explores the discomfort inherent in the contacts between the american 'hosts' and their 'guests . '
though the controversial korean filmmaker's latest effort is not for all tastes , it offers gorgeous imagery , effective performances , and an increasingly unsettling sense of foreboding . 
lathan and diggs have considerable personal charm , and their screen rapport makes the old story seem new . 
the story may not be new , but australian director john polson , making his american feature debut , jazzes it up adroitly . 
it's endearing to hear madame d . refer to her husband as 'jackie' -- and he does make for excellent company , not least as a self-conscious performer . 
the film often achieves a mesmerizing poetry . 
more than makes up for its mawkish posing by offering rousing spates of genuine feeling . 
it's neither as romantic nor as thrilling as it should be . but it offers plenty to ponder and chew on as its unusual relationship slowly unfolds . 
occasionally funny , always very colorful and enjoyably overblown in the traditional almodvar style . 
merchant effectively translates naipaul's lively mix of characters from the page to screen . 
some movies are like a tasty hors-d'oeuvre ; this one is a feast . 
what could have become just another cautionary fable is allowed to play out as a clever , charming tale  as pleasantly in its own way as its self-dramatizing characters . 
davis has filled out his cast with appealing fresh faces . 
achieves a sort of filmic epiphany that revels in the true potential of the medium . 
once you get into its rhythm . . . the movie becomes a heady experience . 
 " auto focus " works as an unusual biopic and document of male swingers in the playboy era
if mr . zhang's subject matter is , to some degree at least , quintessentially american , his approach to storytelling might be called iranian . 
a fast-moving and remarkable film that appears destined to become a landmark in japanese animation . 
 . . . a sour little movie at its core ; an exploration of the emptiness that underlay the relentless gaiety of the 1920's . . . the film's ending has a " what was it all for ? " feeling to it , but like the 1920's , the trip there is a great deal of fun . 
a worthy entry into a very difficult genre . 
[broomfield] uncovers a story powerful enough to leave the screen sizzling with intrigue . 
eight crazy nights is a showcase for sandler's many talents . 
a sweet-natured reconsideration of one of san francisco's most vital , if least widely recognized , creative fountainheads . 
this is one of the most visually stunning and thematically moving epics in recent memory , and in spite of numerous minor flaws , scorsese's best in more than a decade . 
everywhere the camera looks there is something worth seeing . 
a richly imagined and admirably mature work from a gifted director who definitely has something on his mind . 
it's a nicely detailed world of pawns , bishops and kings , of wagers in dingy backrooms or pristine forests . 
a charming , quirky and leisurely paced scottish comedy -- except with an outrageous central gimmick that could have been a reject from monty python's meaning of life . 
it never fails to engage us . 
its direction , its script , and weaver's performance as a vaguely discontented woman of substance make for a mildly entertaining 77 minutes , if that's what you're in the mood for . 
a charming romantic comedy that is by far the lightest dogme film and among the most enjoyable . 
this is the kind of movie that used to be right at home at the saturday matinee , and it still is . 
the spark of special anime magic here is unmistakable and hard to resist . 
like its two predecessors , 1983's koyaanisqatsi and 1988's powaqqatsi , the cinematic collage naqoyqatsi could be the most navel-gazing film ever . 
baran isn't the most transporting or gripping film from iran -- or , indeed , by its director -- but it's a worthy companion to the many fine , focused films emerging from that most surprising of nations . 
the visuals alone make metropolis worth seeing . 
dark , resonant , inventively detailed and packed with fleet turns of plot and a feast of visual amazement . 
a picture that extols the virtues of comradeship and community in a spunky , spirited fashion . 
a resonant tale of racism , revenge and retribution . 
noyce's film is contemplative and mournfully reflective . 
here , adrian lyne comes as close to profundity as he is likely to get . 
evokes a little of the fear that parents have for the possible futures of their children--and the sometimes bad choices mothers and fathers make in the interests of doing them good . 
uno de los policiales ms interesantes de los ltimos tiempos . 
rain is a small treasure , enveloping the viewer in a literal and spiritual torpor that is anything but cathartic . 
an elegant , exquisitely modulated psychological thriller . 
this concoction , so bizarre to the adult mind , is actually a charming triumph where its intended under-12 audience is concerned . 
droll caper-comedy remake of " big deal on madonna street " that's a sly , amusing , laugh-filled little gem in which the ultimate " bellini " begins to look like a " real kaputschnik . " 
it's a beautifully accomplished lyrical meditation on a bunch of despondent and vulnerable characters living in the renown chelsea hotel . . . 
is it a total success ? no . is it something any true film addict will want to check out ? you bet . 
zany , exuberantly irreverent animated space adventure . 
dolgin and franco fashion a fascinating portrait of a vietnamese-born youngster who eagerly and easily assimilated as an all-american girl with a brand new name in southern tennessee . 
the disarming cornball atmosphere has a way of infecting the entire crowd as the film rolls on . 
a refreshingly honest and ultimately touching tale of the sort of people usually ignored in contemporary american film . search it out . 
engrossing and affecting , if ultimately not quite satisfying . 
the story , like life , refuses to be simple , and the result is a compelling slice of awkward emotions . 
a sly game of cat and mouse that's intense and thrilling at times , but occasionally stretches believability to its limits and relies on predictable plot contrivances . 
funny and , at times , poignant , the film from director george hickenlooper all takes place in pasadena , " a city where people still read . " 
this horror-comedy doesn't go for the usual obvious laughs at the expense of cheap-looking monsters -- unless you count elvira's hooters . 
the movie's eventual success should be credited to dennis quaid , in fighting trim shape as an athlete as well as an actor
not a bad journey at all . 
sits uneasily as a horror picture . . . but finds surprising depth in its look at the binds of a small family . 
windtalkers blows this way and that , but there's no mistaking the filmmaker in the tall grass , true to himself . 
there is a refreshing absence of cynicism in stuart little 2--quite a rarity , even in the family film market . eventually , it wins you over . 
noyce films it more as a shocking history lesson than as drama . 
like a south-of-the-border melrose place . 
those with an interest in new or singular sorts of film experiences will find what time is it there ? well worth the time . 
a wildly funny prison caper . 
huppert gives erika a persona that is so intriguing that you find yourself staring hypnotically at her , trying to understand her and wondering if she'll crack . 
despite what anyone believes about the goal of its makers , the show . . . represents a spectacular piece of theater , and there's no denying the talent of the creative forces behind it . 
you'll be left with the sensation of having just witnessed a great performance and , perhaps , give in to the urge to get on your feet and shake it . 
the actors are so terrific at conveying their young angst , we do indeed feel for them . 
the reason this picture works better than its predecessors is that myers is no longer simply spoofing the mini-mod-madness of '60s spy movies . 
it is a kickass , dense sci-fi action thriller hybrid that delivers and then some . i haven't seen one in so long , no wonder i didn't recognize it at first . 
a compelling portrait of moral emptiness
in adobo , ethnicity is not just the spice , but at the heart of more universal concerns . 
it is ridiculous , of course . . . but it is also refreshing , disarming , and just outright enjoyable despite its ridiculousness . 
 . . . blade ii is more enjoyable than the original . 
a film that takes you inside the rhythms of its subject : you experience it as you watch . 
the movie exists for its soccer action and its fine acting . 
the movie is saved from unbearable lightness by the simplicity of the storytelling and the authenticity of the performances . 
the film starts out as competent but unremarkable . . . and gradually grows into something of considerable power . 
nothing denis has made before , like beau travil and nenette et boni , could prepare us for this gory , perverted , sex-soaked riff on the cannibal genre . 
reinforces the talents of screenwriter charlie kaufman , creator of adaptation and being john malkovich . 
greene delivers a typically solid performance in a role that is a bit of a departure from the noble characters he has played in the past , and he is matched by schweig , who carries the film on his broad , handsome shoulders . 
finds a way to tell a simple story , perhaps the simplest story of all , in a way that seems compelling and even original . 
a stunning piece of visual poetry that will , hopefully , be remembered as one of the most important stories to be told in australia's film history . 
this is art paying homage to art . 
 . . . a joke at once flaky and resonant , lightweight and bizarrely original . 
invincible is a wonderful movie . 
 . . . a cute and sometimes side-splittingly funny blend of legally blonde and drop dead gorgeous , starring piper perabo in what could be her breakthrough role . 
dazzling and sugar-sweet , a blast of shallow magnificence that only sex , scandal , and a chorus line of dangerous damsels can deliver . 
occasionally amateurishly made but a winsome cast and nice dialogue keeps it going . 
japan's premier stylist of sex and blood hits audiences with what may be his most demented film to date . 
culkin , who's in virtually every scene , shines as a young man who uses sarcastic lies like a shield . 
cuts right through the b . s . giving a big middle-fingered " shut up " to those who talk up what is nothing more than two guys beating the hell outta one another . 
the am-radio soundtrack and game cast -- tierney and the inimitable walken especially -- keep this unusual comedy from choking on its own conceit . 
 . . . does such a fine job of engulfing you in its world and allying you with its characters' choices , good and ill , that its shortcomings are remembered only as an afterthought . 
marvelous , merry and , yes , melancholy film . 
from spiritual rebirth to bruising defeat , vincent's odyssey resonates in a profound way , comparable to the classic films of jean renoir . 
novak manages to capture a cruelly hilarious vein of black comedy in the situation with his cast of non-actors and a gritty , no-budget approach . 
insomnia is involving . still , i thought it could have been more . 
there was time on that second round to see the subtleties of ramsay's portrait of grief . 
we can see the wheels turning , and we might resent it sometimes , but this is still a nice little picture , made by bright and friendly souls with a lot of good cheer . 
a comprehensive and provocative film -- one that pushes the boundaries of biography , and challenges its audience . 
the way coppola professes his love for movies -- both colorful pop junk and the classics that unequivocally qualify as art -- is giddily entertaining . 
a modest masterpiece . 
a worthwhile way to spend two hours . 
francophiles will snicker knowingly and you'll want to slap them . 
sensitive , insightful and beautifully rendered film . one of the best of the year . 
a love for films shines through each frame and the era is recreated with obvious affection , scored to perfection with some tasty boogaloo beats . 
throwing caution to the wind with an invitation to the hedonist in us all , nair has constructed this motion picture in such a way that even the most cynical curmudgeon with find himself or herself smiling at one time or another . 
makes an aborbing if arguable case for the man's greatness . 
an endlessly fascinating , landmark movie that is as bold as anything the cinema has seen in years . 
 . . . a haunting vision , with images that seem more like disturbing hallucinations . 
they crush each other under cars , throw each other out windows , electrocute and dismember their victims in full consciousness . and we don't avert our eyes for a moment . 
it is not a mass-market entertainment but an uncompromising attempt by one artist to think about another . 
frailty isn't as gory or explicit . but in its child-centered , claustrophobic context , it can be just as frightening and disturbing -- even punishing . 
mixes likeable personalities , inventive photography and cutting , and wall-to-wall toe-tapping music to paint a picture of a subculture that is at once exhilarating , silly , perverse , hopeful and always fun . 
the long-range appeal of " minority report " should transcend any awards it bags . this is one for the ages . 
[a] superbly controlled , passionate adaptation of graham greene's 1955 novel . 
much monkeyfun for all . 
an enchanting film that presents an audacious tour of the past and takes within its warm embrace the bounties of cultural artifacts inside st . petersburg's hermitage museum . 
[hawn's character]is so bluntly written , without a trace of sentimentality , and so blisteringly defined , that every other character seems overlooked and underwritten . 
the heightened symmetry of this new/old cinema paradiso makes the film a fuller experience , like an old friend haunted by the exigencies of time . 
the powers team has fashioned a comedy with more laughs than many , no question . but this time there's some mold on the gold . 
while surprisingly sincere , this average little story is adorned with some awesome action photography and surfing . 
it is far from the worst , thanks to the topical issues it raises , the performances of stewart and hardy , and that essential feature -- a decent full-on space battle . 
a film that is a portrait of grace in an imperfect world . 
a pleasurably jacked-up piece of action moviemaking . 
nicolas philibert observes life inside a one-room schoolhouse in northern france in his documentary to be and to have , easily one of the best films of the year . 
a perverse little truffle , dainty psychological terror on the outside with a creamy filling of familial jealousy and unrepentant domestic psychopathy . 
this ecologically minded , wildlife friendly film teaches good ethics while entertaining with its unconventionally wacky but loving family
an enjoyably half-wit remake of the venerable italian comedy big deal on madonna street . 
it takes this never-ending confusion and hatred , puts a human face on it , evokes shame among all who are party to it and even promotes understanding . 
reign of fire may be little more than another platter of reheated aliens , but it's still pretty tasty . 
there are times when a rumor of angels plays like an extended episode of touched by an angel -- a little too much dancing , a few too many weeping scenes -- but i liked its heart and its spirit . 
two hours of melodramatic musical married to two hours of underdog sports intrigue , if the picture also shares the weaknesses of both genres , more's the pity . 
this cheery , down-to-earth film is warm with the cozy feeling of relaxing around old friends . 
thrilling , provocative and darkly funny , this timely sci-fi mystery works on so many different levels that it not only invites , it demands repeated viewings . 
a tale of horror and revenge that is nearly perfect in its relentless descent to the depths of one man's tortured soul . 
an epic of grandeur and scale that's been decades gone from the popcorn pushing sound stages of hollywood . 
genuinely touching because it's realistic about all kinds of love . 
lauren ambrose comes alive under the attention from two strangers in town - with honest performances and realistic interaction between the characters , this is a coming-of-age story with a twist . 
there has been much puzzlement among critics about what the election symbolizes . i believe the message is in the messenger : the agent is a woman . 
an enjoyable film for the family , amusing and cute for both adults and kids . 
 " the mothman prophecies " is a difficult film to shake from your conscience when night falls . 
the second chapter of the harry potter series is even more magical than the first and simply the best family film of the year . 
more honest about alzheimer's disease , i think , than iris . 
the acting alone is worth the price of admission . 
an excellent romp that boasts both a heart and a mind . 
interacting eyeball-to-eyeball and toe-to-toe , hopkins and norton are a winning combination -- but fiennes steals 'red dragon' right from under their noses . 
this is a terrific character study , a probe into the life of a complex man . 
impresses you with its open-endedness and surprises . 
this isn't a narrative film -- i don't know if it's possible to make a narrative film about september 11th , though i'm sure some will try -- but it's as close as anyone has dared to come . 
my oh my , is this an invigorating , electric movie . 
the two leads chomp considerably more scenery with their acting than fire-breathing monsters barbecue with their breath . . . 
cedar takes a very open-minded approach to this sensitive material , showing impressive control , both visually and in the writing . 
never once predictable . 
biggie and tupac is so single-mindedly daring , it puts far more polished documentaries to shame . 
so many documentaries like this presuppose religious bigotry or zealous nuttiness of its antagonists , but family fundamentals displays a rare gift for unflinching impartiality . 
the cast is uniformly excellent and relaxed . 
after making several adaptations of other writers' work , armenian-canadian director atom egoyan broached an original treatment of a deeply personal subject . 
the film is painfully authentic , and the performances of the young players are utterly convincing . 
if it seems like a minor miracle that its septuagenarian star is young enough to be the nonagenarian filmmaker's son , more incredible still are the clear-eyed boldness and quiet irony with which actor and director take on life's urgent questions . 
a candid and often fascinating documentary about a pentecostal church in dallas that assembles an elaborate haunted house each year to scare teenagers into attending services . 
fans of the animated wildlife adventure show will be in warthog heaven ; others need not necessarily apply . 
without resorting to hyperbole , i can state that kissing jessica stein may be the best same-sex romance i have seen . 
nolan bravely treads where few american films dare to delve -- into the world of ambivalence and ambiguity . . . 
unlike the nauseating fictions peddled by such 'have-yourself-a-happy-little-holocaust' movies as life is beautiful and jakob the liar , the grey zone is honest enough to deny the possibility of hope in auschwitz . 
a potent allegorical love story . 
even those who would like to dismiss the film outright should find much to mull and debate . 
this is cool , slick stuff , ready to quench the thirst of an audience that misses the summer blockbusters . 
the movie is full of fine performances , led by josef bierbichler as brecht and monica bleibtreu as helene weigel , his wife . 
a captivating cross-cultural comedy of manners . 
andy garcia enjoys one of his richest roles in years and mick jagger gives his best movie performance since , well , performance . 
the movie isn't always easy to look at . but if it is indeed a duty of art to reflect life , than leigh has created a masterful piece of artistry right here . 
it's [ricci's] best work yet , this girl-woman who sincerely believes she can thwart the world's misery with blind good will . 
highlights are the terrific performances by christopher plummer , as the prime villain , and nathan lane as vincent crummles , the eccentric theater company manager . 
[howard] so good as leon barlow . . . that he hardly seems to be acting . 
an uplifting , near-masterpiece . 
superior genre storytelling , which gets under our skin simply by crossing the nuclear line . 
by taking entertainment tonight subject matter and giving it humor and poignancy , auto focus becomes both gut-bustingly funny and crushingly depressing . 
it's a bittersweet and lyrical mix of elements . 
subversive , meditative , clinical and poetic , the piano teacher is a daring work of genius . 
the weakest of the four harry potter books has been transformed into the stronger of the two films by the thinnest of margins . 
its gross-out gags and colorful set pieces . . . are of course stultifyingly contrived and too stylized by half . still , it gets the job done -- a sleepy afternoon rental . 
it further declares its director , zhang yang of shower , as a boldly experimental , contemporary stylist with a bright future . 
smith's approach is never to tease , except gently and in that way that makes us consider our own eccentricities and how they are expressed through our homes . 
full of profound , real-life moments that anyone can relate to , it deserves a wide audience . 
a movie that will touch the hearts of both children and adults , as well as bring audiences to the edge of their seats . 
leave it to rohmer , now 82 , to find a way to bend current technique to the service of a vision of the past that is faithful to both architectural glories and commanding open spaces of the city as it was more than two centuries ago . 
fine acting but there is no sense of connecting the dots , just dots . 
an extraordinary swedish film about the soul adventure of marriage -- the kind of intimate and character-driven film that bille august does best . 
a blessed gift to film geeks and historians . if the '70's were your idea of a good time at the movies , this will make you very happy . 
it took 19 predecessors to get this ? 
thoughtful , even stinging at times , and lots of fun . 
one of the most haunting , viciously honest coming-of-age films in recent memory . 
the wwii drama is well plotted , visually striking and filled with enjoyably complex characters who are never what they first appear . 
it's a pleasure to see seinfeld griping about the biz with buddies chris rock , garry shandling and colin quinn . 
if you love motown music , you'll love this documentary . 
this time out , [sade] is an unsettlingly familiar figure -- in turns loyal and deceitful , responsible and reckless , idealistically selfless and coldly self-interested . 
human resources was a good , straightforward tale , but time out is better . it's haunting . it's like a poem . 
to the film's credit , the acting is fresh and unselfconscious , and munch is a marvel of reality versus sappy sentiment . 
chicago is , in many ways , an admirable achievement . 
shainberg weaves a carefully balanced scenario that is controlled by neither character , is weirdly sympathetic to both and manages to be tender and darkly comic . 
even when foreign directors . . . borrow stuff from hollywood , they invariably shake up the formula and make it more interesting . 
a cockamamie tone poem pitched precipitously between swoony lyricism and violent catastrophe . . . the most aggressively nerve-wracking and screamingly neurotic romantic comedy in cinema history . 
sturdy , entertaining period drama . . . both caine and fraser have their moments . 
whether [binoche and magimel] are being charming or angst-ridden , they easily fill their scenes and , fine judges both , never overcook the hysteria . 
a spunky , original take on a theme that will resonate with singles of many ages . 
it's a glorious groove that leaves you wanting more . 
majidi gets uniformly engaging performances from his largely amateur cast . 
 . . . a well-observed and disturbing little movie
fans of nijinsky will savor every minute of cox's work . 
everything you loved about it in 1982 is still there , for everybody who wants to be a kid again , or show it to their own kids . 
jagger the actor is someone you want to see again . 
warm and exotic . 
escapism in its purest form . 
there is a kind of attentive concern that hoffman brings to his characters , as if he has been giving them private lessons , and now it is time for their first public recital . 
a comic gem with some serious sparkles . 
u . s . audiences may find [attal and gainsbourg's] unfamiliar personas give the film an intimate and quaint reality that is a little closer to human nature than what hollywood typically concocts . 
 " cremaster 3 " should come with the warning " for serious film buffs only ! " 
once again , director jackson strikes a rewarding balance between emotion on the human scale and action/effects on the spectacular scale . 
a loving little film of considerable appeal . 
although it's a bit smug and repetitive , this documentary engages your brain in a way few current films do . 
flawed but worthy look at life in u . s . relocation camps . 
it's a lovely film with lovely performances by buy and accorsi . 
no one goes unindicted here , which is probably for the best . and if you're not nearly moved to tears by a couple of scenes , you've got ice water in your veins . 
a warm , funny , engaging film . 
uses sharp humor and insight into human nature to examine class conflict , adolescent yearning , the roots of friendship and sexual identity . 
half submarine flick , half ghost story , all in one criminally neglected film
entertains by providing good , lively company . 
dazzles with its fully-written characters , its determined stylishness ( which always relates to characters and story ) and johnny dankworth's best soundtrack in years . 
visually imaginative , thematically instructive and thoroughly delightful , it takes us on a roller-coaster ride from innocence to experience without even a hint of that typical kiddie-flick sentimentality . 
nothing's at stake , just a twisty double-cross you can smell a mile away--still , the derivative nine queens is lots of fun . 
unlike the speedy wham-bam effect of most hollywood offerings , character development -- and more importantly , character empathy -- is at the heart of italian for beginners . 
you'll gasp appalled and laugh outraged and possibly , watching the spectacle of a promising young lad treading desperately in a nasty sea , shed an errant tear . 
the band's courage in the face of official repression is inspiring , especially for aging hippies ( this one included ) . 
although german cooking does not come readily to mind when considering the world's best cuisine , mostly martha could make deutchland a popular destination for hungry tourists . 
a beguiling splash of pastel colors and prankish comedy from disney . 
as surreal as a dream and as detailed as a photograph , as visually dexterous as it is at times imaginatively overwhelming . 
[lawrence bounces] all over the stage , dancing , running , sweating , mopping his face and generally displaying the wacky talent that brought him fame in the first place . 
the film serves as a valuable time capsule to remind us of the devastating horror suffered by an entire people . 
what's surprising about full frontal is that despite its overt self-awareness , parts of the movie still manage to break past the artifice and thoroughly engage you . 
whether you like rap music or loathe it , you can't deny either the tragic loss of two young men in the prime of their talent or the power of this movie . 
 . . . an otherwise intense , twist-and-turn thriller that certainly shouldn't hurt talented young gaghan's resume . 
it provides the grand , intelligent entertainment of a superior cast playing smart people amid a compelling plot . 
charming and funny ( but ultimately silly ) movie . 
there's . . . tremendous energy from the cast , a sense of playfulness and excitement that seems appropriate . 
it moves quickly , adroitly , and without fuss ; it doesn't give you time to reflect on the inanity -- and the cold war datedness -- of its premise . 
a deep and meaningful film . 
the film's welcome breeziness and some unbelievably hilarious moments -- most portraying the idiocy of the film industry -- make it mostly worth the trip . 
it's a remarkably solid and subtly satirical tour de force . 
enormously entertaining for moviegoers of any age . 
a poignant , artfully crafted meditation on mortality . 
a rarity among recent iranian films : it's a comedy full of gentle humor that chides the absurdity of its protagonist's plight . 
not only is undercover brother as funny , if not more so , than both austin powers films , but it's also one of the smarter , savvier spoofs to come along in some time . 
in a way , the film feels like a breath of fresh air , but only to those that allow it in . 
woody allen's latest is an ambling , broad comedy about all there is to love -- and hate -- about the movie biz . 
it's a stunning lyrical work of considerable force and truth . 
the inhospitability of the land emphasizes the spare precision of the narratives and helps to give them an atavistic power , as if they were tales that had been handed down since the beginning of time . 
[n?s] directed the stage version of elling , and gets fine performances from his two leads who originated the characters on stage . 
made me unintentionally famous  as the queasy-stomached critic who staggered from the theater and blacked out in the lobby . but believe it or not , it's one of the most beautiful , evocative works i've seen . 
a coda in every sense , the pinochet case splits time between a minute-by-minute account of the british court's extradition chess game and the regime's talking-head survivors . 
like mike is a winner for kids , and no doubt a winner for lil bow wow , who can now add movies to the list of things he does well . 
[t]his beguiling belgian fable , very much its own droll and delicate little film , has some touching things to say about what is important in life and why . 
here's yet another studio horror franchise mucking up its storyline with glitches casual fans could correct in their sleep . but taken as a stylish and energetic one-shot , the queen of the damned cannot be said to suck . 
you won't like roger , but you will quickly recognize him . and that's a big part of why we go to the movies . 
while the stoically delivered hokum of hart's war is never fun , it's still a worthy addition to the growing canon of post-saving private ryan tributes to the greatest generation . 
we know the plot's a little crazy , but it held my interest from start to finish . 
a sober and affecting chronicle of the leveling effect of loss . 
a fast , funny , highly enjoyable movie . 
a celebration of quirkiness , eccentricity , and certain individuals' tendency to let it all hang out , and damn the consequences . 
writer/director joe carnahan's grimy crime drama is a manual of precinct cliches , but it moves fast enough to cover its clunky dialogue and lapses in logic . 
a smart , witty follow-up . 
while the ideas about techno-saturation are far from novel , they're presented with a wry dark humor . 
an infectious cultural fable with a tasty balance of family drama and frenetic comedy . 
although occasionally static to the point of resembling a stage play , the film delivers a solid mixture of sweetness and laughs . 
it provides an honest look at a community striving to anchor itself in new grounds . 
add yet another hat to a talented head , clooney's a good director . 
building slowly and subtly , the film , sporting a breezy spontaneity and realistically drawn characterizations , develops into a significant character study that is both moving and wise . 
ultimately feels empty and unsatisfying , like swallowing a communion wafer without the wine . 
chilling , well-acted , and finely directed : david jacobson's dahmer . 
a swashbuckling tale of love , betrayal , revenge and above all , faith . 
 . . . a true delight . 
without ever becoming didactic , director carlos carrera expertly weaves this novelistic story of entangled interrelationships and complex morality . 
it's a coming-of-age story we've all seen bits of in other films -- but it's rarely been told with such affecting grace and cultural specificity . 
a literate presentation that wonderfully weaves a murderous event in 1873 with murderous rage in 2002 . 
makes even the claustrophobic on-board quarters seem fun . 
this is as respectful a film as byatt fans could hope for , though lovers of the book may wonder why it's necessary . 
one of the best films of the year with its exploration of the obstacles to happiness faced by five contemporary individuals . . . a psychological masterpiece . 
not far beneath the surface , this reconfigured tale asks disturbing questions about those things we expect from military epics . 
for the most part stevens glides through on some solid performances and witty dialogue . 
broomfield turns his distinctive 'blundering' style into something that could really help clear up the case . 
against all odds in heaven and hell , it creeped me out just fine . 
it's refreshing to see a girl-power movie that doesn't feel it has to prove anything . 
it's worth seeing just on the basis of the wisdom , and at times , the startling optimism , of the children . 
a rigorously structured and exquisitely filmed drama about a father and son connection that is a brief shooting star of love . 
this surreal gilliam-esque film is also a troubling interpretation of ecclesiastes . a rewarding work of art for only the most patient and challenge-hungry moviegoers . 
a quiet treasure -- a film to be savored . 
may be far from the best of the series , but it's assured , wonderfully respectful of its past and thrilling enough to make it abundantly clear that this movie phenomenon has once again reinvented itself for a new generation . 
a compelling spanish film about the withering effects of jealousy in the life of a young monarch whose sexual passion for her husband becomes an obsession . 
huston nails both the glad-handing and the choking sense of hollow despair . 
may not have generated many sparks , but with his affection for astoria and its people he has given his tale a warm glow . 
a delirious celebration of the female orgasm . 
exquisitely nuanced in mood tics and dialogue , this chamber drama is superbly acted by the deeply appealing veteran bouquet and the chilling but quite human berling . 
it's fascinating to see how bettany and mcdowell play off each other . 
the film is beautifully mounted , but , more to the point , the issues are subtly presented , managing to walk a fine line with regard to the question of joan's madness . 
leigh's film is full of memorable performances from top to bottom . 
one of the most significant moviegoing pleasures of the year . 
jose campanella delivers a loosely autobiographical story brushed with sentimentality but brimming with gentle humor , bittersweet pathos , and lyric moments that linger like snapshots of memory . 
generally , clockstoppers will fulfill your wildest fantasies about being a different kind of time traveler , while happily killing 94 minutes . 
the movie is beautiful to behold and engages one in a sense of epic struggle -- inner and outer -- that's all too rare in hollywood's hastier productions . 
ao sair do cinema , eu estava feliz e com saudades de um tempo em que , para mim , a existncia de papai noel era um fato inquestionvel . 
neither parker nor donovan is a typical romantic lead , but they bring a fresh , quirky charm to the formula . 
it's a much more emotional journey than what shyamalan has given us in his past two movies , and gibson , stepping in for bruce willis , is the perfect actor to take us on the trip . 
not only are the special effects and narrative flow much improved , and daniel radcliffe more emotionally assertive this time around as harry , but the film conjures the magic of author j . k . rowling's books . 
jaglom . . . put[s] the audience in the privileged position of eavesdropping on his characters
beautifully observed , miraculously unsentimental comedy-drama . 
a must-see for the david mamet enthusiast and for anyone who appreciates intelligent , stylish moviemaking . 
crackerjack entertainment -- nonstop romance , music , suspense and action . 
the acting , costumes , music , cinematography and sound are all astounding given the production's austere locales . 
garca bernal and talancn are an immensely appealing couple , and even though their story is predictable , you'll want things to work out . 
far more imaginative and ambitious than the trivial , cash-in features nickelodeon has made from its other animated tv series . 
the very definition of the 'small' movie , but it is a good stepping stone for director sprecher . 
a gripping , searing portrait of a lost soul trying to find her way through life . 
suffers from the lack of a compelling or comprehensible narrative . still , as a visual treat , the film is almost unsurpassed . 
so unassuming and pure of heart , you can't help but warmly extend your arms and yell 'safe ! '
an intriguing cinematic omnibus and round-robin that occasionally is more interesting in concept than in execution . 
so refreshingly incisive is grant that for the first time he'll probably appeal more to guys than to their girlfriends who drag them to this movie for the hugh factor . 
at a time when half the so-called real movies are little more than live-action cartoons , it's refreshing to see a cartoon that knows what it is , and knows the form's history . 
the magic of the film lies not in the mysterious spring but in the richness of its performances . 
hoffman notches in the nuances of pain , but his smart , edgy voice and waddling profile ( emphasized here ) accent the humor of wilson's plight , and that saves his pathos from drippiness . 
what better message than 'love thyself' could young women of any size receive ? 
the second coming of harry potter is a film far superior to its predecessor . a movie that successfully crushes a best selling novel into a timeframe that mandates that you avoid the godzilla sized soda . 
84 minutes of rolling musical back beat and supercharged cartoon warfare . it's also , clearly , great fun . 
 . . . takes the beauty of baseball and melds it with a story that could touch anyone regardless of their familiarity with the sport
seldahl's barbara is a precise and moving portrait of someone whose world is turned upside down , first by passion and then by illness . 
a warm but realistic meditation on friendship , family and affection . 
byler reveals his characters in a way that intrigues and even fascinates us , and he never reduces the situation to simple melodrama . 
turns potentially forgettable formula into something strangely diverting . 
bogdanovich tantalizes by offering a peep show into the lives of the era's creme de la celluloid . 
people cinema at its finest . 
the performances take the movie to a higher level . 
what really makes it special is that it pulls us into its world , gives us a hero whose suffering and triumphs we can share , surrounds him with interesting characters and sends us out of the theater feeling we've shared a great adventure . 
 . . . a spoof comedy that carries its share of laughs  sometimes a chuckle , sometimes a guffaw and , to my great pleasure , the occasional belly laugh . 
manages to transcend the sex , drugs and show-tunes plot into something far richer . 
dense with characters and contains some thrilling moments . 
a true pleasure . 
lapaglia's ability to convey grief and hope works with weaver's sensitive reactions to make this a two-actor master class . 
reign of fire looks as if it was made without much thought -- and is best watched that way . 
altogether , this is successful as a film , while at the same time being a most touching reconsideration of the familiar masterpiece . 
we root for [clara and paul] , even like them , though perhaps it's an emotion closer to pity . 
the best film about baseball to hit theaters since field of dreams . 
instead of a hyperbolic beat-charged urban western , it's an unpretentious , sociologically pointed slice of life . 
the film tunes into a grief that could lead a man across centuries . 
if the count of monte cristo doesn't transform caviezel into a movie star , then the game is even more rigged than it was two centuries ago . 
[d]oesn't bother being as cloying or preachy as equivalent evangelical christian movies -- maybe the filmmakers know that the likely audience will already be among the faithful . 
as a tolerable diversion , the film suffices ; a triumph , however , it is not . 
if director michael dowse only superficially understands his characters , he doesn't hold them in contempt . 
if your taste runs to 'difficult' films you absolutely can't miss it . 
[city] reminds us how realistically nuanced a robert de niro performance can be when he is not more lucratively engaged in the shameless self-caricature of 'analyze this' ( 1999 ) and 'analyze that , ' promised ( or threatened ) for later this year . 
 . . . a story we haven't seen on the big screen before , and it's a story that we as americans , and human beings , should know . 
like leon , it's frustrating and still oddly likable . 
all in all , the count of monte cristo is okay , but it is surely no classic , like the novel upon which it is based . 
if you can stomach the rough content , it's worth checking out for the performances alone . 
looking aristocratic , luminous yet careworn in jane hamilton's exemplary costumes , rampling gives a performance that could not be improved upon . 
' . . . mafia , rap stars and hood rats butt their ugly heads in a regurgitation of cinematic violence that gives brutal birth to an unlikely , but likable , hero . '
on this tricky topic , tadpole is very much a step in the right direction , with its blend of frankness , civility and compassion . 
fun , flip and terribly hip bit of cinematic entertainment . 
montias . . . pumps a lot of energy into his nicely nuanced narrative and surrounds himself with a cast of quirky -- but not stereotyped -- street characters . 
falls neatly into the category of good stupid fun . 
the film's performances are thrilling . 
even in its most tedious scenes , russian ark is mesmerizing . 
the continued good chemistry between carmen and juni is what keeps this slightly disappointing sequel going , with enough amusing banter -- blessedly curse-free -- to keep both kids and parents entertained . 
reggio's continual visual barrage is absorbing as well as thought-provoking . 
unfortunately , it appears that [jackie] chan's us influence is starting to show in his hong kong films . 
it all adds up to good fun . 
a big , gorgeous , sprawling swashbuckler that delivers its diversions in grand , uncomplicated fashion . 
the wanton slipperiness of * corpus and its amiable jerking and reshaping of physical time and space would make it a great piece to watch with kids and use to introduce video as art . 
a stunning and overwhelmingly cogent case for kissinger as a calculating war criminal . 
sade is an engaging look at the controversial eponymous and fiercely atheistic hero . 
a quiet , pure , elliptical film
kinnear doesn't aim for our sympathy , but rather delivers a performance of striking skill and depth . 
the subtle strength of " elling " is that it never loses touch with the reality of the grim situation . 
a study in shades of gray , offering itself up in subtle plot maneuvers . . . 
the format gets used best . . . to capture the dizzying heights achieved by motocross and bmx riders , whose balletic hotdogging occasionally ends in bone-crushing screwups . 
has a lot of the virtues of eastwood at his best . 
chilling but uncommercial look into the mind of jeffrey dahmer , serial killer . 
though it's become almost redundant to say so , major kudos go to leigh for actually casting people who look working-class . 
it deserves to be seen by anyone with even a passing interest in the events shaping the world beyond their own horizons . 
a movie that reminds us of just how exciting and satisfying the fantasy cinema can be when it's approached with imagination and flair . 
thanks to scott's charismatic roger and eisenberg's sweet nephew , roger dodger is one of the most compelling variations on in the company of men . 
nine queens is not only than a frighteningly capable debut and genre piece , but also a snapshot of a dangerous political situation on the verge of coming to a head . 
it's the chemistry between the women and the droll scene-stealing wit and wolfish pessimism of anna chancellor that makes this " two weddings and a funeral " fun . 
will amuse and provoke adventurous adults in specialty venues . 
you don't have to know about music to appreciate the film's easygoing blend of comedy and romance . 
third time's the charm . . . yeah , baby ! 
a film about a young man finding god that is accessible and touching to the marrow . 
for the first time in years , de niro digs deep emotionally , perhaps because he's been stirred by the powerful work of his co-stars . 
the film's snags and stumblings are more than compensated for by its wryly subversive tone . 
inside the film's conflict-powered plot there is a decent moral trying to get out , but it's not that , it's the tension that keeps you in your seat . affleck and jackson are good sparring partners . 
the old-world- meets-new mesh is incarnated in the movie's soundtrack , a joyful effusion of disco bollywood that , by the end of monsoon wedding , sent my spirit soaring out of the theater . 
an effectively creepy , fear-inducing ( not fear-reducing ) film from japanese director hideo nakata , who takes the superstitious curse on chain letters and actually applies it . 
having had the good sense to cast actors who are , generally speaking , adored by the movie-going public , khouri then gets terrific performances from them all . 
a subtle and well-crafted ( for the most part ) chiller . 
warm water under a red bridge is a quirky and poignant japanese film that explores the fascinating connections between women , water , nature , and sexuality . 
although laced with humor and a few fanciful touches , the film is a refreshingly serious look at young women . 
the best revenge may just be living well because this film , unlike other dumas adaptations , is far more likened to a treasure than a lengthy jail sentence . 
a delectable and intriguing thriller filled with surprises , read my lips is an original . this is a story of two misfits who don't stand a chance alone , but together they are magnificent . 
highbrow self-appointed guardians of culture need not apply , but those who loved cool as ice have at last found a worthy follow-up . 
one of creepiest , scariest movies to come along in a long , long time , easily rivaling blair witch or the others . 
maud and roland's search for an unknowable past makes for a haunting literary detective story , but labute pulls off a neater trick in possession : he makes language sexy . 
pacino is brilliant as the sleep-deprived dormer , his increasing weariness as much existential as it is physical . 
rare birds has more than enough charm to make it memorable . 
manages to be sweet and wickedly satisfying at the same time . 
this nickleby thing might have more homosexual undertones than an eddie murphy film . and just when you think it can't get any more gay , in pops nathan lane . 
no sophomore slump for director sam mendes , who segues from oscar winner to oscar-winning potential with a smooth sleight of hand . 
the movie isn't just hilarious : it's witty and inventive , too , and in hindsight , it isn't even all that dumb . 
old-form moviemaking at its best . 
ahhhh . . . revenge is sweet ! 
yakusho and shimizu . . . create engaging characterizations in imamura's lively and enjoyable cultural mix . 
you will emerge with a clearer view of how the gears of justice grind on and the death report comes to share airtime alongside the farm report . 
ruzowitzky has taken this mothball-y stuff and made a rather sturdy , old-fashioned entertainment out of it . 
in spite of good housekeeping's unsavory characters and wwf mentality , this white trash war of the roses is a surprisingly engaging film . 
collateral damage finally delivers the goods for schwarzenegger fans . 
there has always been something likable about the marquis de sade . 
as a first-time director , paxton has tapped something in himself as an actor that provides frailty with its dark soul . 
for the most part , director anne-sophie birot's first feature is a sensitive , extraordinarily well-acted drama . 
by the time we learn that andrew's turnabout is fair play is every bit as awful as borchardt's coven , we can enjoy it anyway . 
this riveting world war ii moral suspense story deals with the shadow side of american culture : racial prejudice in its ugly and diverse forms . 
a tender , heartfelt family drama . 
a difficult , absorbing film that manages to convey more substance despite its repetitions and inconsistencies than do most films than are far more pointed and clear . 
for the most part , it's a work of incendiary genius , steering clear of knee-jerk reactions and quick solutions . 
it has the charm of the original american road movies , feasting on the gorgeous , ramshackle landscape of the filmmaker's motherland . 
[chaiken's] talent lies in an evocative , accurate observation of a distinctive milieu and in the lively , convincing dialogue she creates for her characters . 
in all , this is a watchable movie that's not quite the memorable experience it might have been . 
huppert's superbly controlled display of murderous vulnerability ensures that malice has a very human face . 
my thoughts were focused on the characters . that is a compliment to kuras and miller . if i had been thinking about the visual medium , they would have been doing something wrong . 
one of the more intelligent children's movies to hit theaters this year . 
remember the kind of movie we were hoping " ecks vs . sever " or " xxx " was going to be ? this is it . 
not for the prurient or squeamish , it's a daring if overlong examination of an idolized culture , self-loathing and sexual politics . 
a cartoon that's truly cinematic in scope , and a story that's compelling and heartfelt -- even if the heart belongs to a big , four-legged herbivore . 
the film's almost unbearable portrait of sadness and grief transcends its specific story to speak to the ways in which need , history and presumption tangle , and sometimes destroy , blood ties . 
travels a fascinating arc from hope and euphoria to reality and disillusionment . 
polished , well-structured film . 
there's something auspicious , and daring , too , about the artistic instinct that pushes a majority-oriented director like steven spielberg to follow a . i . with this challenging report so liable to unnerve the majority . 
for anyone unfamiliar with pentacostal practices in general and theatrical phenomenon of hell houses in particular , it's an eye-opener . 
it seems like i have been waiting my whole life for this movie and now i can't wait for the sequel . 
it's a bit disappointing that it only manages to be decent instead of dead brilliant . 
apesar de seus graves problemas , o filme consegue entreter . 
an operatic , sprawling picture that's entertainingly acted , magnificently shot and gripping enough to sustain most of its 170-minute length . 
the far future may be awesome to consider , but from period detail to matters of the heart , this film is most transporting when it stays put in the past . 
it inspires a continuing and deeply satisfying awareness of the best movies as monumental 'picture shows . '
awesome creatures , breathtaking scenery , and epic battle scenes add up to another 'spectacular spectacle . '
by candidly detailing the politics involved in the creation of an extraordinary piece of music , [jones] calls our attention to the inherent conflict between commerce and creativity . 
it's unnerving to see recoing's bizzarre reaction to his unemployment . good film , but very glum . 
much as we might be interested in gratuitous sexualization , haneke has a different objective in mind--namely the implications of our craving for fake stimulation . 
dazzling in its complexity , disturbing for its extraordinary themes , the piano teacher is a film that defies categorisation . it haunts , horrifies , startles and fascinates ; it is impossible to look away . ah yes , and then there's the music . . . 
it has charm to spare , and unlike many romantic comedies , it does not alienate either gender in the audience . 
although jackson is doubtless reserving the darkest hours for the return of the king , we long for a greater sense of urgency in the here and now of the two towers . 
it is great summer fun to watch arnold and his buddy gerald bounce off a quirky cast of characters . 
bleakly funny , its characters all the more touching for refusing to pity or memorialize themselves . 
it will not appeal to the impatient , but those who like long books and movies will admire the way it accumulates power and depth . 
this flick is about as cool and crowd-pleasing as a documentary can get . 
 " the ring " is pretty much an english-language copy of the film that inspired it , and it carries the same strengths and flaws . 
the wild thornberrys movie is a jolly surprise . 
griffiths proves she's that rare luminary who continually raises the standard of her profession . 
prancing his way through the tailor-made part of a male hooker approaching the end of his vitality , jagger obviously relishes every self-mocking moment . 
sexy and romantic . 
offers much to enjoy . . . and a lot to mull over in terms of love , loyalty and the nature of staying friends . 
an important movie , a reminder of the power of film to move us and to make us examine our values . 
is this love or is it masochism ? binoche makes it interesting trying to find out . 
a pleasant , if forgettable , romp of a film . 
the mesmerizing performances of the leads keep the film grounded and keep the audience riveted . 
worth watching for dong jie's performance -- and for the way it documents a culture in the throes of rapid change . 
two hours fly by -- opera's a pleasure when you don't have to endure intermissions -- and even a novice to the form comes away exhilarated . 
it's one heck of a character study -- not of hearst or davies but of the unique relationship between them . 
candid camera on methamphetamines . 
a subject like this should inspire reaction in its audience ; the pianist does not . 
equilibrium is what george orwell might have imagined had today's mood-altering drug therapy been envisioned by chemists in 1949 . 
creepy , authentic and dark . this disturbing bio-pic is hard to forget . 
martin and barbara are complex characters -- sometimes tender , sometimes angry -- and the delicate performances by sven wollter and viveka seldahl make their hopes and frustrations vivid . 
a twisty , moody slice of southern gothic . . . 
it's so good that you can practically see the hollywood 'suits' trying to put together the cast and filmmaking team for the all-too -inevitable american remake . 
the weight of the piece , the unerring professionalism of the chilly production , and the fascination embedded in the lurid topic prove recommendation enough . 
an absurdist comedy about alienation , separation and loss . 
'they' begins and ends with scenes so terrifying i'm still stunned . and i've decided to leave a light on every night from now on . 
this tenth feature is a big deal , indeed -- at least the third-best , and maybe even a notch above the previous runner-up , nicholas meyer's star trek vi : the undiscovered country . 
 . . . with " the bourne identity " we return to the more traditional action genre . 
beneath clouds is a succinct low-budget film whose compelling characters and intelligent script are exactly what was missing from rabbit-proof fence . 
the film is a contrivance , as artificial as the video games japanese teens play in a nightclub sequence , but it's an enjoyable one . 
holm . . . embodies the character with an effortlessly regal charisma . 
it is amusing , and that's all it needs to be . 
among the year's most intriguing explorations of alientation . 
a full world has been presented onscreen , not some series of carefully structured plot points building to a pat resolution . 
seldom has a movie so closely matched the spirit of a man and his work . 
audrey tatou has a knack for picking roles that magnify her outrageous charm , and in this literate french comedy , she's as morning-glory exuberant as she was in amlie . 
the movie has an infectious exuberance that will engage anyone with a passing interest in the skate/surf culture , the l . a . beach scene and the imaginative ( and sometimes illegal ) ways kids can make a playground out of the refuse of adults . 
even if you don't think [kissinger's] any more guilty of criminal activity than most contemporary statesmen , he'd sure make a courtroom trial great fun to watch . 
the story and structure are well-honed . fresnadillo's dark and jolting images have a way of plying into your subconscious like the nightmare you had a week ago that won't go away . 
it's made with deftly unsettling genre flair . 
it just may inspire a few younger moviegoers to read stevenson's book , which is a treasure in and of itself . 
funny but perilously slight . 
overall very good for what it's trying to do . 
forgettable horror -- more gory than psychological -- with a highly satisfying quotient of friday-night excitement and milla power . 
ramsay , as in ratcatcher , remains a filmmaker with an acid viewpoint and a real gift for teasing chilly poetry out of lives and settings that might otherwise seem drab and sordid . 
it may seem long at 110 minutes if you're not a fan , because it includes segments of 12 songs at a reunion concert . 
a lean , deftly shot , well-acted , weirdly retro thriller that recalls a raft of '60s and '70s european-set spy pictures . 
it proves quite compelling as an intense , brooding character study . 
the son's room is a triumph of gentility that earns its moments of pathos . 
morton uses her face and her body language to bring us morvern's soul , even though the character is almost completely deadpan . 
the film may appear naked in its narrative form . . . but it goes deeper than that , to fundamental choices that include the complexity of the catholic doctrine
a superbly acted and funny/gritty fable of the humanizing of one woman at the hands of the unseen forces of fate . 
one of the smartest takes on singles culture i've seen in a long time . 
there is a fabric of complex ideas here , and feelings that profoundly deepen them . 
cq's reflection of artists and the love of cinema-and-self suggests nothing less than a new voice that deserves to be considered as a possible successor to the best european directors . 
the emotions are raw and will strike a nerve with anyone who's ever had family trauma . 
holy mad maniac in a mask , splat-man ! good old-fashioned slash-and-hack is back ! 
as unseemly as its title suggests . 
by the end of the movie , you're definitely convinced that these women are spectacular . 
the french are rather good at this kind of thing , unlike the americans , who have a passion for musketeers , only to spoof them . 
the fly-on-the-wall method used to document rural french school life is a refreshing departure from the now more prevalent technique of the docu-makers being a visible part of their work . 
it's an offbeat treat that pokes fun at the democratic exercise while also examining its significance for those who take part . 
allows us to hope that nolan is poised to embark a major career as a commercial yet inventive filmmaker . 
maneuvers skillfully through the plot's hot brine -- until it's undone by the sogginess of its contemporary characters , and actors . 
it has the ability to offend and put off everyone , but it holds you with its outrageousness . 
anchored by friel and williams's exceptional performances , the film's power lies in its complexity . nothing is black and white . 
it's a charming and often affecting journey . 
psychologically savvy . 
no screen fantasy-adventure in recent memory has the showmanship of clones' last 45 minutes . 
a poignant and compelling story about relationships , food of love takes us on a bumpy but satisfying journey of the heart . 
birot creates a drama with such a well-defined sense of place and age -- as in , 15 years old -- that the torments and angst become almost as operatic to us as they are to her characters . 
the chateau cleverly probes the cross-cultural differences between gauls and yanks . 
not since tom cruise in risky business has an actor made such a strong impression in his underwear . 
aside from minor tinkering , this is the same movie you probably loved in 1994 , except that it looks even better . 
uses high comedy to evoke surprising poignance . 
it confirms fincher's status as a film maker who artfully bends technical know-how to the service of psychological insight . 
vera's three actors -- moll , gil and bardem -- excel in insightful , empathetic performances . 
a marvel like none you've seen . 
with tightly organized efficiency , numerous flashbacks and a constant edge of tension , miller's film is one of 2002's involvingly adult surprises . 
mr . tsai is a very original artist in his medium , and what time is it there ? should be seen at the very least for its spasms of absurdist humor . 
writer/director mark romanek spotlights the underlying caste system in america . it's a scathing portrayal . 
this is a good script , good dialogue , funny even for adults . the characters are interesting and often very creatively constructed from figure to backstory . the film will play equally well on both the standard and giant screens . 
moody , heartbreaking , and filmed in a natural , unforced style that makes its characters seem entirely convincing even when its script is not . 
not a film to rival to live , but a fine little amuse-bouche to keep your appetite whetted . 
true tale of courage -- and complicity -- at auschwitz is a harrowing drama that tries to tell of the unspeakable . 
gives you the steady pulse of life in a beautiful city viewed through the eyes of a character who , in spite of tragic loss and increasing decrepitude , knows in his bones that he is one of the luckiest men alive . 
macdowell , whose wifty southern charm has anchored lighter affairs . . . brings an absolutely riveting conviction to her role . 
what time is it there ? is not easy . it haunts you , you can't forget it , you admire its conception and are able to resolve some of the confusions you had while watching it . 
if you are an actor who can relate to the search for inner peace by dramatically depicting the lives of others onstage , then esther's story is a compelling quest for truth . 
although the level of the comedy declines as the movie proceeds , there's no denying the fun of watching de niro and crystal having fun . 
claude chabrol has here a thriller without thrills , but that's okay . 
for movie lovers as well as opera lovers , tosca is a real treat . 
unflinchingly bleak and desperate
moretti's compelling anatomy of grief and the difficult process of adapting to loss . 
challenging , intermittently engrossing and unflaggingly creative . but it's too long and too convoluted and it ends in a muddle . 
the vivid lead performances sustain interest and empathy , but the journey is far more interesting than the final destination . 
a painfully funny ode to bad behavior . 
'easily my choice for one of the year's best films . '
charles' entertaining film chronicles seinfeld's return to stand-up comedy after the wrap of his legendary sitcom , alongside wannabe comic adams' attempts to get his shot at the big time . 
that dogged good will of the parents and 'vain' jia's defoliation of ego , make the film touching despite some doldrums . 
the movie is for fans who can't stop loving anime , and the fanatical excess built into it . 
the volatile dynamics of female friendship is the subject of this unhurried , low-key film that is so off-hollywood that it seems positively french in its rhythms and resonance . 
a densely constructed , highly referential film , and an audacious return to form that can comfortably sit among jean-luc godard's finest work . 
michael gerbosi's script is economically packed with telling scenes . 
a strangely compelling and brilliantly acted psychological drama . 
candid and comfortable ; a film that deftly balances action and reflection as it lets you grasp and feel the passion others have for their work . 
open-minded kids -- kids who read , kids who dream -- will be comforted by the way it deals with big issues like death and destiny . 
bennett's naturalistic performance speaks volumes more truth than any 'reality' show , and anybody contemplating their own drastic life changes should watch some body first . 
 . . . a good , if not entirely fresh , look at war . 
 the film is powerful , accessible and funny . you won't miss its messages , but you'll be entertained as well . 
'frailty " starts out like a typical bible killer story , but it turns out to be significantly different ( and better ) than most films with this theme . 
if you dig on david mamet's mind tricks . . . rent this movie and enjoy ! 
the primitive force of this film seems to bubble up from the vast collective memory of the combatants . it's like watching a nightmare made flesh . 
it is the sheer , selfish , wound-licking , bar-scrapping doggedness of leon's struggle to face and transmute his demons that makes the movie a spirited and touching occasion , despite its patchy construction . 
a gorgeous , high-spirited musical from india that exquisitely blends music , dance , song , and high drama . 
it's hard to imagine alan arkin being better than he is in this performance . 
for those who pride themselves on sophisticated , discerning taste , this might not seem like the proper cup of tea , however it is almost guaranteed that even the stuffiest cinema goers will laugh their * * * off for an hour-and-a-half . 
despite the 2-d animation , the wild thornberrys movie makes for a surprisingly cinematic experience . 
 . . . a fun little timewaster , helped especially by the cool presence of jean reno . 
[majidi] makes us think twice about immigrants we see around us every day . 
though only 60 minutes long , the film is packed with information and impressions . 
i have no way of knowing exactly how much is exaggeration , but i've got a creepy feeling that the film is closer to the mark than i want to believe . 
immersing us in the endlessly inventive , fiercely competitive world of hip-hop djs , the project is sensational and revelatory , even if scratching makes you itch . 
further proof that the epicenter of cool , beautiful , thought-provoking foreign cinema is smack-dab in the middle of dubya's axis of evil . 
there's really only one good idea in this movie , but the director runs with it and presents it with an unforgettable visual panache . 
a simple , but gritty and well-acted ensemble drama that encompasses a potent metaphor for a country still dealing with its fascist past . 
lovely and poignant . puts a human face on a land most westerners are unfamiliar with . 
i can't say that i liked homeboy ; it'd be more accurate to say that i found it intriguing , bizarre , dogma-like in spots - and quite truthful , in its way . 
displaying about equal amounts of naivet , passion and talent , beneath clouds establishes sen as a filmmaker of considerable potential . 
the vitality of the actors keeps the intensity of the film high , even as the strafings blend together . 
not since japanese filmmaker akira kurosawa's ran have the savagery of combat and the specter of death been visualized with such operatic grandeur . 
we learn a lot about dying coral and see a lot of life on the reef . 
if the first men in black was money , the second is small change . but it still jingles in the pocket . it's fun lite . 
passable entertainment , but it's the kind of motion picture that won't make much of a splash when it's released , and will not be remembered long afterwards . 
i just loved every minute of this film . 
this is a winning ensemble comedy that shows canadians can put gentle laughs and equally gentle sentiments on the button , just as easily as their counterparts anywhere else in the world . 
just as moving , uplifting and funny as ever . 
my wife is an actress is an utterly charming french comedy that feels so american in sensibility and style it's virtually its own hollywood remake . 
it will grip even viewers who aren't interested in rap , as it cuts to the heart of american society in an unnerving way . 
a muckraking job , the cinematic equivalent of a legal indictment , and a fairly effective one at that . 
a tender , witty , captivating film about friendship , love , memory , trust and loyalty . 
belongs to daniel day-lewis as much as it belongs to martin scorsese ; it's a memorable performance in a big , brassy , disturbing , unusual and highly successful film . 
an exhilarating futuristic thriller-noir , minority report twists the best of technology around a gripping story , delivering a riveting , pulse intensifying escapist adventure of the first order
a psychological thriller with a genuinely spooky premise and an above-average cast , actor bill paxton's directing debut is a creepy slice of gothic rural americana . 
while locals will get a kick out of spotting cleveland sites , the rest of the world will enjoy a fast-paced comedy with quirks that might make the award-winning coen brothers envious . 
pumpkin takes an admirable look at the hypocrisy of political correctness , but it does so with such an uneven tone that you never know when humor ends and tragedy begins . 
if you're hard up for raunchy college humor , this is your ticket right here . 
few films capture so perfectly the hopes and dreams of little boys on baseball fields as well as the grown men who sit in the stands . 
corny , schmaltzy and predictable , but still manages to be kind of heartwarming , nonetheless . it's the perfect kind of film to see when you don't want to use your brain . at all . 
while it regards 1967 as the key turning point of the 20th century , and returns again and again to images of dissidents in the streets , it's alarmingly current . 
feature debuter d . j . caruso directs a crack ensemble cast , bringing screenwriter tony gayton's narcotics noir to life . 
every dance becomes about seduction , where backstabbing and betrayals are celebrated , and sex is currency . 
harris commands the screen , using his frailty to suggest the ravages of a life of corruption and ruthlessness . 
stephen rea , aidan quinn , and alan bates play desmond's legal eagles , and when joined by brosnan , the sight of this grandiloquent quartet lolling in pretty irish settings is a pleasant enough thing , 'tis . 
director of photography benoit delhomme shot the movie in delicious colors , and the costumes and sets are grand . 
the movie's relatively simple plot and uncomplicated morality play well with the affable cast . 
the film is quiet , threatening and unforgettable . 
this illuminating documentary transcends our preconceived vision of the holy land and its inhabitants , revealing the human complexities beneath . 
deliriously funny , fast and loose , accessible to the uninitiated , and full of surprises
trademark american triteness and simplicity are tossed out the window with the intelligent french drama that deftly explores the difficult relationship between a father and son . 
one from the heart . 
more concerned with sade's ideas than with his actions . the movie achieves as great an impact by keeping these thoughts hidden as . . . [quills] did by showing them . 
an entertaining , colorful , action-filled crime story with an intimate heart . 
while undisputed isn't exactly a high , it is a gripping , tidy little movie that takes mr . hill higher than he's been in a while . 
the most compelling wiseman epic of recent years . 
the socio-histo-political treatise is told in earnest strides . . . [and] personal illusion is deconstructed with poignancy . 
it's great escapist fun that recreates a place and time that will never happen again . 
good car chases , great fight scenes , and a distinctive blend of european , american and asian influences . 
liotta put on 30 pounds for the role , and has completely transformed himself from his smooth , goodfellas image . 
a woman's pic directed with resonance by ilya chaiken . 
contando com uma premissa curiosa , o filme mergulha o espectador em um clima de forte suspense , culminando em um desfecho que certamente fica na memria . 
[grant's] bumbling magic takes over the film , and it turns out to be another winning star vehicle . 
 . . . brian de palma is utterly mad : cinema mad , set-piece mad , style mad . it's a beautiful madness . 
generally provides its target audience of youngsters enough stimulating eye and ear candy to make its moral medicine go down . 
there are some wonderfully fresh moments that smooth the moral stiffness with human kindness and hopefulness . 
a grimly competent and stolid and earnest military courtroom drama . 
escaping the studio , piccoli is warmly affecting and so is this adroitly minimalist movie . 
very psychoanalytical -- provocatively so -- and also refreshingly literary . 
a gorgeous , witty , seductive movie . 
the special effects and many scenes of weightlessness look as good or better than in the original , while the oscar-winning sound and james horner's rousing score make good use of the hefty audio system . 
on the heels of the ring comes a similarly morose and humorless horror movie that , although flawed , is to be commended for its straight-ahead approach to creepiness . 
with rabbit-proof fence , noyce has tailored an epic tale into a lean , economical movie . 
[a]n utterly charming and hilarious film that reminded me of the best of the disney comedies from the 60s . 
preaches to two completely different choirs at the same time , which is a pretty amazing accomplishment . 
thanks to haynes' absolute control of the film's mood , and buoyed by three terrific performances , far from heaven actually pulls off this stylistic juggling act . 
birthday girl is an amusing joy ride , with some surprisingly violent moments . 
more romantic , more emotional and ultimately more satisfying than the teary-eyed original . 
an appealingly juvenile trifle that delivers its share of laughs and smiles . 
writer-director's mehta's effort has tons of charm and the whimsy is in the mixture , the intoxicating masala , of cultures and film genres . 
the draw [for " big bad love " ] is a solid performance by arliss howard . 
it gets onto the screen just about as much of the novella as one could reasonably expect , and is engrossing and moving in its own right . 
the terrific and bewilderingly underrated campbell scott gives a star performance that is nothing short of mesmerizing . 
cool ? this movie is a snow emergency . 
like mike isn't interested in recycling old cliches . it wants to tweak them with a taste of tangy new humor . 
smith is careful not to make fun of these curious owners of architectural oddities . instead , he shows them the respect they are due . 
a mess when it comes to the characters and writing . . . but works its way underneath the skin like few movies have in recent memory . 
drops you into a dizzying , volatile , pressure-cooker of a situation that quickly snowballs out of control , while focusing on the what much more than the why . 
zhang . . . has done an amazing job of getting realistic performances from his mainly nonprofessional cast . 
a solid examination of the male midlife crisis . 
if you're in the mood for a bollywood film , here's one for you . 
as the two leads , lathan and diggs are charming and have chemistry both as friends and lovers . 
a beguiling , slow-moving parable about the collision of past and present on a remote seacoast in iran . 
my big fat greek wedding uses stereotypes in a delightful blend of sweet romance and lovingly dished out humor . 
kept aloft largely by a comically adept ensemble . 
the sort of film that makes me miss hitchcock , but also feel optimistic that there's hope for popular cinema yet . 
first-time writer-director serry shows a remarkable gift for storytelling with this moving , effective little film . 
it cuts to the core of what it actually means to face your fears , to be a girl in a world of boys , to be a boy truly in love with a girl , and to ride the big metaphorical wave that is life -- wherever it takes you . 
atom egoyan has conjured up a multilayered work that tackles any number of fascinating issues
essentially an exceptionally well-written , well-edited , well-directed , well-acted , bald rip-off of aliens . 
'de niro . . . is a veritable source of sincere passion that this hollywood contrivance orbits around . '
the whole is quite entertaining , but despite its virtues , there is an unsettled feeling to the film . 
while its careful pace and seemingly opaque story may not satisfy every moviegoer's appetite , the film's final scene is soaringly , transparently moving . 
hardly a masterpiece , but it introduces viewers to a good charitable enterprise and some interesting real people . 
based on a devilishly witty script by heather mcgowan and niels mueller , the film gets great laughs , but never at the expense of its characters
it's somewhat clumsy and too lethargically paced -- but its story about a mysterious creature with psychic abilities offers a solid build-up , a terrific climax , and some nice chills along the way . 
if you've ever wondered what an ending without the input of studio executives or test audiences would look like , here it is . 
exciting and direct , with ghost imagery that shows just enough to keep us on our toes . 
whether writer-director anne fontaine's film is a ghost story , an account of a nervous breakdown , a trip down memory lane , all three or none of the above , it is as seductive as it is haunting . 
what the film lacks in general focus it makes up for in compassion , as corcuera manages to find the seeds of hope in the form of collective action . 
if you enjoy more thoughtful comedies with interesting conflicted characters ; this one is for you . 
the quality of the art combined with the humor and intelligence of the script allow the filmmakers to present the biblical message of forgiveness without it ever becoming preachy or syrupy . 
this film seems thirsty for reflection , itself taking on adolescent qualities . 
another one of those estrogen overdose movies like " divine secrets of the ya ya sisterhood , " except that the writing , acting and character development are a lot better . 
a breezy romantic comedy that has the punch of a good sitcom , while offering exceptionally well-detailed characters . 
a romantic comedy enriched by a sharp eye for manners and mores . 
viewers of " the ring " are more likely to remember the haunting images than the plot holes . 
a delightful coming-of-age story . 
one of those energetic surprises , an original that pleases almost everyone who sees it . 
an exquisitely crafted and acted tale . 
a taut psychological thriller that doesn't waste a moment of its two-hour running time . 
jones . . . does offer a brutal form of charisma . 
despite its title , punch-drunk love is never heavy-handed . the jabs it employs are short , carefully placed and dead-center . 
there's a wickedly subversive bent to the best parts of birthday girl . 
likely to expertly drum up repressed teenage memories in any viewer . 
blanchett's performance confirms her power once again . 
 . . . a magnificent drama well worth tracking down . 
a good piece of work more often than not . 
the movie understands like few others how the depth and breadth of emotional intimacy give the physical act all of its meaning and most of its pleasure . 
what distinguishes time of favor from countless other thrillers is its underlying concern with the consequences of words and with the complicated emotions fueling terrorist acts . 
smart , provocative and blisteringly funny . 
nothing is sacred in this gut-buster . 
the movie occasionally threatens to become didactic , but it's too grounded in the reality of its characters to go over the edge . a touch of humor or an unexpected plot twist always pulls it back . 
filmmakers who can deftly change moods are treasures and even marvels . so , too , is this comedy about mild culture clashing in today's new delhi . 
if steven soderbergh's 'solaris' is a failure it is a glorious failure . 
 " mostly martha " is a bright , light modern day family parable that wears its heart on its sleeve for all to see . 
it's a scattershot affair , but when it hits its mark it's brilliant . 
a pleasant enough romance with intellectual underpinnings , the kind of movie that entertains even as it turns maddeningly predictable . 
featuring a dangerously seductive performance from the great daniel auteuil , " sade " covers the same period as kaufmann's " quills " with more unsettlingly realistic results . 
a spellbinding african film about the modern condition of rootlessness , a state experienced by millions around the globe . 
it's a work by an artist so in control of both his medium and his message that he can improvise like a jazzman . 
a moody , multi-dimensional love story and sci-fi mystery , solaris is a thought-provoking , haunting film that allows the seeds of the imagination to germinate . 
a very well-made , funny and entertaining picture . 
a giggle-inducing comedy with snappy dialogue and winning performances by an unlikely team of oscar-winners : susan sarandon and goldie hawn . 
its maker , steven spielberg , hasn't had so much fun in two decades , since he was schlepping indiana jones around the globe in search of a giant misplaced ashtray . 
oscar wilde's masterpiece , the importance of being earnest , may be the best play of the 19th century . it's so good that its relentless , polished wit can withstand not only inept school productions , but even oliver parker's movie adaptation . 
the movie does a good job of laying out some of the major issues that we encounter as we journey through life . 
brilliantly explores the conflict between following one's heart and following the demands of tradition . 
this remake gets all there is to get out of a peculiar premise with promise : al pacino loathing robin williams . 
the next generation of mob movie . part low rent godfather . part three stooges . 
lan yu is at times too restrained , yet there are moments it captures the erotics of intimacy in a way that makes most american love stories look downright unfree . 
a thinly veiled look at different aspects of chinese life clashing with each other . 
light years/ several warp speeds/ levels and levels of dilithium crystals better than the pitiful insurrection . which isn't to say that it's the equal of some of its predecessors . 
delightfully rendered
if this story must be told and retold -- and indeed it must -- then the grey zone is to be lauded for finding a new and ingenious angle . 
the lion king was a roaring success when it was released eight years ago , but on imax it seems better , not just bigger . 
a gripping movie , played with performances that are all understated and touching . 
the piece plays as well as it does thanks in large measure to anspaugh's three lead actresses . 
the inspirational screenplay by mike rich covers a lot of ground , perhaps too much , but ties things together , neatly , by the end . 
not the kind of film that will appeal to a mainstream american audience , but there is a certain charm about the film that makes it a suitable entry into the fest circuit . 
director andrew niccol . . . demonstrates a wry understanding of the quirks of fame . his healthy sense of satire is light and fun . . . . 
about a manga-like heroine who fights back at her abusers , it's energetic and satisfying if not deep and psychological . 
this is human comedy at its most amusing , interesting and confirming . 
an artful , intelligent film that stays within the confines of a well-established genre . 
majidi is an unconventional storyteller , capable of finding beauty in the most depressing places . 
richard gere and diane lane put in fine performances as does french actor oliver martinez . 
the minor figures surrounding [bobby] . . . form a gritty urban mosaic . 
this is wild surreal stuff , but brilliant and the camera just kind of sits there and lets you look at this and its like you're going from one room to the next and none of them have any relation to the other . 
it's a demented kitsch mess ( although the smeary digital video does match the muddled narrative ) , but it's savvy about celebrity and has more guts and energy than much of what will open this year . 
there is nothing outstanding about this film , but it is good enough and will likely be appreciated most by sailors and folks who know their way around a submarine . 
all-in-all , the film is an enjoyable and frankly told tale of a people who live among us , but not necessarily with us . 
an interesting story with a pertinent ( cinematically unique ) message , told fairly well and scored to perfection , i found myself struggling to put my finger on that elusive " missing thing . " 
a movie with a real anarchic flair . 
a welcome relief from baseball movies that try too hard to be mythic , this one is a sweet and modest and ultimately winning story . 
a crisp psychological drama [and] a fascinating little thriller that would have been perfect for an old " twilight zone " episode . 
it has more than a few moments that are insightful enough to be fondly remembered in the endlessly challenging maze of moviegoing . 
opening with some contrived banter , cliches and some loose ends , the screenplay only comes into its own in the second half . 
an uncluttered , resonant gem that relays its universal points without lectures or confrontations . 
'[the cockettes] provides a window into a subculture hell-bent on expressing itself in every way imaginable . '
a smart , steamy mix of road movie , coming-of-age story and political satire . 
the modern-day royals have nothing on these guys when it comes to scandals . it's only in fairy tales that princesses that are married for political reason live happily ever after . 
a terrific b movie -- in fact , the best in recent memory . 
 " birthday girl " is an actor's movie first and foremost . 
i walked away from this new version of e . t . just as i hoped i would -- with moist eyes . 
for devotees of french cinema , safe conduct is so rich with period minutiae it's like dying and going to celluloid heaven . 
what's really so appealing about the characters is their resemblance to everyday children . 
shamelessly resorting to pee-related sight gags that might even cause tom green a grimace ; still , myer's energy and the silliness of it all eventually prevail
an absurdist spider web . 
if you're as happy listening to movies as you are watching them , and the slow parade of human frailty fascinates you , then you're at the right film . 
this version moves beyond the original's nostalgia for the communal film experiences of yesteryear to a deeper realization of cinema's inability to stand in for true , lived experience . 
some movies blend together as they become distant memories . mention " solaris " five years from now and i'm sure those who saw it will have an opinion to share . 
allen's funniest and most likeable movie in years . 
it's a glorious spectacle like those d . w . griffith made in the early days of silent film . 
this comic gem is as delightful as it is derivative . 
more timely than its director could ever have dreamed , this quietly lyrical tale probes the ambiguous welcome extended by iran to the afghani refugees who streamed across its borders , desperate for work and food . 
the leaping story line , shaped by director peter kosminsky into sharp slivers and cutting impressions , shows all the signs of rich detail condensed into a few evocative images and striking character traits . 
with three excellent principal singers , a youthful and good-looking diva and tenor and richly handsome locations , it's enough to make you wish jacquot had left well enough alone and just filmed the opera without all these distortions of perspective . 
the production has been made with an enormous amount of affection , so we believe these characters love each other . 
certainly the performances are worthwhile . 
'no es la mejor cinta de la serie , ni la mejor con brosnan a la cabeza , pero de que entretiene ni duda cabe . '
winds up being both revelatory and narcissistic , achieving some honest insight into relationships that most high-concept films candy-coat with pat storylines , precious circumstances and beautiful stars . 
watching these eccentrics is both inspiring and pure joy . 
steven spielberg brings us another masterpiece
finally , the french-produced " read my lips " is a movie that understands characters must come first . 
ms . seigner and mr . serrault bring fresh , unforced naturalism to their characters . 
allen shows he can outgag any of those young whippersnappers making moving pictures today . 
a good film with a solid pedigree both in front of and , more specifically , behind the camera . 
by no means a slam-dunk and sure to ultimately disappoint the action fans who will be moved to the edge of their seats by the dynamic first act , it still comes off as a touching , transcendent love story . 
i encourage young and old alike to go see this unique and entertaining twist on the classic whale's tale -- you won't be sorry ! 
a literary detective story is still a detective story and aficionados of the whodunit won't be disappointed . 
high crimes steals so freely from other movies and combines enough disparate types of films that it can't help but engage an audience . 
if you're a fan of the series you'll love it and probably want to see it twice . i will be . 
it celebrates the group's playful spark of nonconformity , glancing vividly back at what hibiscus grandly called his 'angels of light . '
the story . . . is inspiring , ironic , and revelatory of just how ridiculous and money-oriented the record industry really is . it is also a testament to the integrity and vision of the band . 
laced with liberal doses of dark humor , gorgeous exterior photography , and a stable-full of solid performances , no such thing is a fascinating little tale . 
huppert's show to steal and she makes a meal of it , channeling kathy baker's creepy turn as the repressed mother on boston public just as much as 8 women's augustine . 
nair doesn't treat the issues lightly . she allows each character to confront their problems openly and honestly . 
one of the best silly horror movies of recent memory , with some real shocks in store for unwary viewers . 
the work of a filmmaker who has secrets buried at the heart of his story and knows how to take time revealing them . strange occurrences build in the mind of the viewer and take on extreme urgency . 
has a certain ghoulish fascination , and generates a fair amount of b-movie excitement . 
familiar but utterly delightful . 
a fascinating , dark thriller that keeps you hooked on the delicious pulpiness of its lurid fiction . 
the film aims to be funny , uplifting and moving , sometimes all at once . the extent to which it succeeds is impressive . 
the film brilliantly shines on all the characters , as the direction is intelligently accomplished . 
while not for every taste , this often very funny collegiate gross-out comedy goes a long way toward restoring the luster of the national lampoon film franchise , too long reduced to direct-to-video irrelevancy . 
as broad and cartoonish as the screenplay is , there is an accuracy of observation in the work of the director , frank novak , that keeps the film grounded in an undeniable social realism . 
in addition to hoffman's powerful acting clinic , this is that rare drama that offers a thoughtful and rewarding glimpse into the sort of heartache everyone has felt , or will feel someday . 
jeffrey tambor's performance as the intelligent jazz-playing exterminator is oscar-worthy . 
from the opening strains of the average white band's " pick up the pieces " , you can feel the love . 
stevens' vibrant creative instincts are the difference between this and countless other flicks about guys and dolls . 
that it'll probably be the best and most mature comedy of the 2002 summer season speaks more of the season than the picture
old people will love this movie , and i mean that in the nicest possible way : last orders will touch the heart of anyone old enough to have earned a 50-year friendship . 
meyjes' provocative film might be called an example of the haphazardness of evil . 
tian emphasizes the isolation of these characters by confining color to liyan's backyard . 
the movie is pretty funny now and then without in any way demeaning its subjects . 
imagine a scenario where bergman approaches swedish fatalism using gary larson's far side humor
too damn weird to pass up , and for the blacklight crowd , way cheaper ( and better ) than pink floyd tickets . 
it is most remarkable not because of its epic scope , but because of the startling intimacy it achieves despite that breadth . 
it's not a great monster movie . but if you've paid a matinee price and bought a big tub of popcorn , there's guilty fun to be had here . chomp chomp ! 
the grey zone gives voice to a story that needs to be heard in the sea of holocaust movies . . . but the film suffers from its own difficulties . 
fun and nimble . 
others , more attuned to the anarchist maxim that 'the urge to destroy is also a creative urge' , or more willing to see with their own eyes , will find morrison's iconoclastic uses of technology to be liberating . 
miller tells this very compelling tale with little fuss or noise , expertly plucking tension from quiet . 
time out is existential drama without any of the pretension associated with the term . 
it's a sweet , laugh-a-minute crowd pleaser that lifts your spirits as well as the corners of your mouth . 
writer/director alexander payne ( election ) and his co-writer jim taylor brilliantly employ their quirky and fearless ability to look american angst in the eye and end up laughing . 
a movie that at its best doesn't just make the most out of its characters' flaws but insists on the virtue of imperfection . 
it's tough to watch , but it's a fantastic movie . 
the best animated feature to hit theaters since beauty and the beast 11 years ago . 
what saves this deeply affecting film from being merely a collection of wrenching cases is corcuera's attention to detail . 
funny and touching . 
pacino is the best he's been in years and keener is marvelous . 
a solid , spooky entertainment worthy of the price of a ticket . 
by turns fanciful , grisly and engagingly quixotic . 
 . . . very funny , very enjoyable . . . 
adaptation is intricately constructed and in a strange way nails all of orlean's themes without being a true adaptation of her book . 
so purely enjoyable that you might not even notice it's a fairly straightforward remake of hollywood comedies such as father of the bride . 
moonlight mile gives itself the freedom to feel contradictory things . it is sentimental but feels free to offend , is analytical and then surrenders to the illogic of its characters , is about grief and yet permits laughter . 
the real triumphs in igby come from philippe , who makes oliver far more interesting than the character's lines would suggest , and sarandon , who couldn't be better as a cruel but weirdly likable wasp matron . 
robin williams has thankfully ditched the saccharine sentimentality of bicentennial man in favour of an altogether darker side . 
if you're willing to have fun with it , you won't feel cheated by the high infidelity of unfaithful . 
australia : land beyond time is an enjoyable big movie primarily because australia is a weirdly beautiful place . 
hoffman's performance is authentic to the core of his being . 
told just proficiently enough to trounce its overly comfortable trappings . 
an enthralling aesthetic experience , one that's steeped in mystery and a ravishing , baroque beauty . 
the quirky drama touches the heart and the funnybone thanks to the energetic and always surprising performance by rachel griffiths . 
a captivating coming-of-age story that may also be the first narrative film to be truly informed by the wireless age . 
what could have been a daytime soap opera is actually a compelling look at a young woman's tragic odyssey . 
duvall is strong as always . 
a no-holds-barred cinematic treat . 
you'd have to be a most hard-hearted person not to be moved by this drama . 
allen's underestimated charm delivers more goodies than lumps of coal . 
measured against practically any like-themed film other than its oscar-sweeping franchise predecessor the silence of the lambs , red dragon rates as an exceptional thriller . 
an exhilarating serving of movie fluff . 
maelstrom is strange and compelling , engrossing and different , a moral tale with a twisted sense of humor . 
it makes you believe the cast and crew thoroughly enjoyed themselves and believed in their small-budget film . 
dark and disturbing , yet compelling to watch . 
too often , son of the bride becomes an exercise in trying to predict when a preordained " big moment " will occur and not " if . " 
the picture uses humor and a heartfelt conviction to tell a story about discovering your destination in life , but also acknowledging the places , and the people , from whence you came . 
a solid piece of journalistic work that draws a picture of a man for whom political expedience became a deadly foreign policy . 
a terrific insider look at the star-making machinery of tinseltown . 
it's a diverting enough hour-and-a-half for the family audience . 
a party-hearty teen flick that scalds like acid . 
as giddy and whimsical and relevant today as it was 270 years ago . 
the film offers an intriguing what-if premise . 
the pianist is the film roman polanski may have been born to make . 
this version does justice both to stevenson and to the sci-fi genre . 
poignant and delicately complex . 
enough may pander to our basest desires for payback , but unlike many revenge fantasies , it ultimately delivers . 
cho's latest comic set isn't as sharp or as fresh as i'm the one that i want . . . but it's still damn funny stuff . 
in the pianist , polanski is saying what he has long wanted to say , confronting the roots of his own preoccupations and obsessions , and he allows nothing to get in the way . 
despite the film's shortcomings , the stories are quietly moving . 
those who love cinema paradiso will find the new scenes interesting , but few will find the movie improved . 
if you come from a family that eats , meddles , argues , laughs , kibbitzes and fights together , then go see this delightful comedy . 
this bracingly truthful antidote to hollywood teenage movies that slather clearasil over the blemishes of youth captures the combustible mixture of a chafing inner loneliness and desperate grandiosity that tend to characterize puberty . 
the reason to see " sade " lay with the chemistry and complex relationship between the marquis ( auteil ) and emilie ( le besco ) . 
it's the filmmakers' post-camp comprehension of what made old-time b movies good-bad that makes eight legged freaks a perfectly entertaining summer diversion . 
serious and thoughtful . 
it strikes hardest when it reminds you how pertinent its dynamics remain . fifty years after the fact , the world's political situation seems little different , and [director phillip] noyce brings out the allegory with remarkable skill . 
the film's strength isn't in its details , but in the larger picture it paints - of a culture in conflict with itself , with the thin veneer of nationalism that covers our deepest , media-soaked fears . 
 . . . best seen as speculative history , as much an exploration of the paranoid impulse as a creative sequel to the warren report . 
it has its faults , but it is a kind , unapologetic , sweetheart of a movie , and mandy moore leaves a positive impression . 
the saigon of 1952 is an uneasy mix of sensual delights and simmering violence , and the quiet american brings us right into the center of that world . 
despite its shortcomings , girls can't swim represents an engaging and intimate first feature by a talented director to watch , and it's a worthy entry in the french coming-of-age genre . 
flawed , but worth seeing for ambrose's performance . 
with dirty deeds , david caesar has stepped into the mainstream of filmmaking with an assurance worthy of international acclaim and with every cinematic tool well under his control -- driven by a natural sense for what works on screen . 
the humor and humanity of monsoon wedding are in perfect balance . 
lookin' for sin , american-style ? try hell house , which documents the cautionary christian spook-a-rama of the same name . 
a compelling motion picture that illustrates an american tragedy . 
as comedic spotlights go , notorious c . h . o . hits all the verbal marks it should . 
it's a day at the beach -- with air conditioning and popcorn . 
frida isn't that much different from many a hollywood romance . what sets it apart is the vision that taymor , the avant garde director of broadway's the lion king and the film titus , brings . 
stevens has a flair for dialogue comedy , the film operates nicely off the element of surprise , and the large cast is solid . 
extremely well acted by the four primary actors , this is a seriously intended movie that is not easily forgotten . 
the film exudes the urbane sweetness that woody allen seems to have bitterly forsaken . 
k-19 : the widowmaker is derivative , overlong , and bombastic -- yet surprisingly entertaining . 
it's good , hard-edged stuff , violent and a bit exploitative but also nicely done , morally alert and street-smart . 
cineasts will revel in those visual in-jokes , as in the film's verbal pokes at everything from the likes of miramax chief harvey weinstein's bluff personal style to the stylistic rigors of denmark's dogma movement . 
it's a rare window on an artistic collaboration . 
 . . . begins with promise , but runs aground after being snared in its own tangled plot . 
perhaps the best sports movie i've ever seen . 
cho's timing is priceless . 
 . . . creates a visceral sense of its characters' lives and conflicted emotions that carries it far above . . . what could have been a melodramatic , lifetime channel-style anthology . 
a sensitive , moving , brilliantly constructed work . 
an edgy thriller that delivers a surprising punch . 
a reasonably entertaining sequel to 1994's surprise family hit that may strain adult credibility . 
[reno] delivers a monologue that manages to incorporate both the horror and the absurdity of the situation in a well-balanced fashion . 
there is truth here
a confident , richly acted , emotionally devastating piece of work and 2002's first great film
a touching , small-scale story of family responsibility and care in the community . 
arteta directs one of the best ensemble casts of the year
the casting of von sydow . . . is itself intacto's luckiest stroke . 
no , it's not as single-minded as john carpenter's original , but it's sure a lot smarter and more unnerving than the sequels . 
a gem of a romantic crime comedy that turns out to be clever , amusing and unpredictable . 
stands as one of the year's most intriguing movie experiences , letting its imagery speak for it while it forces you to ponder anew what a movie can be . 
 . . . the first 2/3 of the film are incredibly captivating and insanely funny , thanks in part to interesting cinematic devices ( cool visual backmasking ) , a solid cast , and some wickedly sick and twisted humor . . . 
this movie got me grinning . there's a part of us that cannot help be entertained by the sight of someone getting away with something . 
an old-fashioned drama of substance about a teacher's slide down the slippery slope of dishonesty after an encounter with the rich and the powerful who have nothing but disdain for virtue . 
what's not to like about a movie with a 'children's' song that includes the line 'my stepdad's not mean , he's just adjusting' ? 
this english-language version . . . does full honor to miyazaki's teeming and often unsettling landscape , and to the conflicted complexity of his characters . 
the pleasures that it does afford may be enough to keep many moviegoers occupied amidst some of the more serious-minded concerns of other year-end movies . 
not everyone will welcome or accept the trials of henry kissinger as faithful portraiture , but few can argue that the debate it joins is a necessary and timely one . 
there are no special effects , and no hollywood endings . 
like the original , this version is raised a few notches above kiddie fantasy pablum by allen's astringent wit . 
despite its hawaiian setting , the science-fiction trimmings and some moments of rowdy slapstick , the basic plot of " lilo " could have been pulled from a tear-stained vintage shirley temple script . 
a brutally honest documentary about a much anticipated family reunion that goes wrong thanks to culture shock and a refusal to empathize with others . 
filled with honest performances and exceptional detail , baran is a gentle film with dramatic punch , a haunting ode to humanity . 
sparkles in its deft portrait of tinseltown's seasoned veterans of gossip , wealth , paranoia , and celebrityhood . 
in its dry and forceful way , it delivers the same message as jiri menzel's closely watched trains and danis tanovic's no man's land . 
one-of-a-kind near-masterpiece . 
 . . . a triumph of emotionally and narratively complex filmmaking . 
[haynes'] homage to such films as " all that heaven allows " and " imitation of life " transcends them . simply put , " far from heaven " is a masterpiece . 
an intense and effective film about loneliness and the chilly anonymity of the environments where so many of us spend so much of our time . 
although fairly involving as far as it goes , the film doesn't end up having much that is fresh to say about growing up catholic or , really , anything . 
proves mainly that south korean filmmakers can make undemanding action movies with all the alacrity of their hollywood counterparts . 
a very funny romantic comedy about two skittish new york middle-agers who stumble into a relationship and then struggle furiously with their fears and foibles . 
top-notch action powers this romantic drama . 
beresford nicely mixes in as much humor as pathos to take us on his sentimental journey of the heart . it really is a shame that more won't get an opportunity to embrace small , sweet 'evelyn . '
i stopped thinking about how good it all was , and started doing nothing but reacting to it - feeling a part of its grand locations , thinking urgently as the protagonists struggled , feeling at the mercy of its inventiveness , gasping at its visual delights . 
probably the best case for christianity since chesterton and lewis . 
a gently funny , sweetly adventurous film that makes you feel genuinely good , that is to say , entirely unconned by false sentiment or sharp , overmanipulative hollywood practices . 
would be an unendurable viewing experience for this ultra-provincial new yorker if 26-year-old reese witherspoon were not on hand to inject her pure fantasy character , melanie carmichael , with a massive infusion of old-fashioned hollywood magic . 
visually fascinating . . . an often intense character study about fathers and sons , loyalty and duty . 
a lyrical metaphor for cultural and personal self-discovery and a picaresque view of a little-remembered world . 
schtte's dramatic snapshot of the artist three days before his death offers an interesting bit of speculation as to the issues brecht faced as his life drew to a close . 
a slick , engrossing melodrama . 
s1m0ne's satire is not subtle , but it is effective . it's a quirky , off-beat project . . . . 
while some will object to the idea of a vietnam picture with such a rah-rah , patriotic tone , soldiers ultimately achieves its main strategic objective : dramatizing the human cost of the conflict that came to define a generation . 
even if you don't know the band or the album's songs by heart , you will enjoy seeing how both evolve , and you will also learn a good deal about the state of the music business in the 21st century . 
the solid filmmaking and convincing characters makes this a high water mark for this genre . 
films about loss , grief and recovery are pretty valuable these days . seen in that light , moonlight mile should strike a nerve in many . 
it's endlessly inventive , consistently intelligent and sickeningly savage . 
it is definitely worth seeing . 
an impeccable study in perversity . 
far from heaven is a dazzling conceptual feat , but more than that , it's a work of enthralling drama . 
a movie that both thrills the eye and , in its over-the-top way , touches the heart . 
stuffed to the brim with ideas , american instigator michael moore's film is a rambling examination of american gun culture that uses his usual modus operandi of crucifixion through juxtaposition . 
affectionately reminds us that , in any language , the huge stuff in life can usually be traced back to the little things . 
a drama of great power , yet some members of the audience will leave the theater believing they have seen a comedy . 
the large-frame imax camera lends itself beautifully to filming the teeming life on the reefs , making this gorgeous film a must for everyone from junior scientists to grown-up fish lovers . 
the result is more depressing than liberating , but it's never boring . 
a story about intelligent high school students that deals with first love sweetly but also seriously . it is also beautifully acted . 
it isn't that the picture is unfamiliar , but that it manages to find new avenues of discourse on old problems . 
same song , second verse , coulda been better , but it coulda been worse . 
it's a technically superb film , shining with all the usual spielberg flair , expertly utilizing the talents of his top-notch creative team . 
wilco fans will have a great time , and the movie should win the band a few new converts , too . 
tsai has a well-deserved reputation as one of the cinema world's great visual stylists , and in this film , every shot enhances the excellent performances . 
the date movie that franz kafka would have made . 
the fact is that the screen is most alive when it seems most likely that broomfield's interviewees , or even himself , will not be for much longer . 
leguizamo and jones are both excellent and the rest of the cast is uniformly superb . 
i liked this film a lot . . . 
 . . . there is enough originality in 'life' to distance it from the pack of paint-by-number romantic comedies that so often end up on cinema screens . 
a solid and refined piece of moviemaking imbued with passion and attitude . 
nettelbeck has crafted an engaging fantasy of flavours and emotions , one part romance novel , one part recipe book . 
with or without the sex , a wonderful tale of love and destiny , told well by a master storyteller
on the surface a silly comedy , scotland , pa would be forgettable if it weren't such a clever adaptation of the bard's tragic play . 
a weird , arresting little ride . 
a fine film , but it would be a lot better if it stuck to betty fisher and left out the other stories . 
a first-class road movie that proves you can run away from home , but your ego and all your problems go with you . 
you might want to take a reality check before you pay the full ticket price to see " simone , " and consider a dvd rental instead . 
well cast and well directed - a powerful drama with enough sardonic wit to keep it from being maudlin . 
a backstage must-see for true fans of comedy . 
there's back-stabbing , inter-racial desire and , most importantly , singing and dancing . 
the film sounds like the stuff of lurid melodrama , but what makes it interesting as a character study is the fact that the story is told from paul's perspective . 
jones . . . makes a great impression as the writer-director of this little $1 . 8 million charmer , which may not be cutting-edge indie filmmaking but has a huge heart . 
in the disturbingly involving family dysfunctional drama how i killed my father , french director anne fontaine delivers an inspired portrait of male-ridden angst and the emotional blockage that accompanies this human condition
below may not mark mr . twohy's emergence into the mainstream , but his promise remains undiminished . 
there's no reason to miss interview with the assassin
happily stays close to the ground in a spare and simple manner and doesn't pummel us with phony imagery or music . 
its sheer dynamism is infectious . 
for his first attempt at film noir , spielberg presents a fascinating but flawed look at the near future . 
lightweight but appealing . 
it somehow managed to make its way past my crappola radar and find a small place in my heart
perhaps it's cliche to call the film 'refreshing , ' but it is . 'drumline' shows a level of young , black manhood that is funny , touching , smart and complicated . 
it does give a taste of the burning man ethos , an appealing blend of counter-cultural idealism and hedonistic creativity . 
the limited sets and small confined and dark spaces also are homages to a classic low-budget film noir movie . 
the movie is well done , but slow . 
[a] wonderfully loopy tale of love , longing , and voting . 
the fascination comes in the power of the huston performance , which seems so larger than life and yet so fragile , and in the way the ivan character accepts the news of his illness so quickly but still finds himself unable to react . 
the last scenes of the film are anguished , bitter and truthful . mr . koshashvili is a director to watch . 
predictable storyline and by-the-book scripting is all but washed away by sumptuous ocean visuals and the cinematic stylings of director john stockwell . 
antwone fisher certainly does the trick of making us care about its protagonist and celebrate his victories but , with few exceptions , it rarely stoops to cheap manipulation or corny conventions to do it . 
one feels the dimming of a certain ambition , but in its place a sweetness , clarity and emotional openness that recalls the classics of early italian neorealism . 
it challenges , this nervy oddity , like modern art should . 
whenever you think you've figured out late marriage , it throws you for a loop . 
the pianist is polanski's best film . 
it is a testament of quiet endurance , of common concern , of reconciled survival . 
this orange has some juice , but it's far from fresh-squeezed . 
a sensitive , modest comic tragedy that works as both character study and symbolic examination of the huge economic changes sweeping modern china . 
highly engaging . 
high crimes knows the mistakes that bad movies make and is determined not to make them , and maybe that is nobility of a sort . 
cusack's just brilliant in this . 
knows how to make our imagination wonder . 
jae-eun jeong's take care of my cat brings a beguiling freshness to a coming-of-age story with such a buoyant , expressive flow of images that it emerges as another key contribution to the flowering of the south korean cinema . 
the overall fabric is hypnotic , and mr . mattei fosters moments of spontaneous intimacy . 
evokes a palpable sense of disconnection , made all the more poignant by the incessant use of cell phones . 
malcolm mcdowell is cool . paul bettany is cool . paul bettany playing malcolm mcdowell ? cool . 
a touching , sophisticated film that almost seems like a documentary in the way it captures an italian immigrant family on the brink of major changes . 
 . . . a trashy little bit of fluff stuffed with enjoyable performances and a bewildering sense of self-importance
an inventive , absorbing movie that's as hard to classify as it is hard to resist . 
it made me want to get made-up and go see this movie with my sisters . i thought the relationships were wonderful , the comedy was funny , and the love 'real' . 
 ( caine ) proves once again he hasn't lost his touch , bringing off a superb performance in an admittedly middling film . 
bogdanovich puts history in perspective and , via kirsten dunst's remarkable performance , he showcases davies as a young woman of great charm , generosity and diplomacy . 
this breezy caper movie becomes a soulful , incisive meditation on the way we were , and the way we are . 
a captivating new film . 
those who aren't put off by the film's austerity will find it more than capable of rewarding them . 
it's a clear-eyed portrait of an intensely lived time , filled with nervous energy , moral ambiguity and great uncertainties . 
reveals how important our special talents can be when put in service of of others . it also shows how deeply felt emotions can draw people together across the walls that might otherwise separate them . 
with the same sort of good-natured fun found in films like tremors , eight legged freaks is prime escapist fare . 
a sharp , amusing study of the cult of celebrity . 
the sentimental cliches mar an otherwise excellent film . a powerful performance from mel gibson and a brutal 90-minute battle sequence that does everything but issue you a dog-tag and an m-16 . 
a graceful , moving tribute to the courage of new york's finest and a nicely understated expression of the grief shared by the nation at their sacrifice . 
a coming-of-age tale from new zealand whose boozy , languid air is balanced by a rich visual clarity and deeply felt performances across the board . 
made to be jaglomized is the cannes film festival , the annual riviera spree of flesh , buzz , blab and money . the charming result is festival in cannes . 
if you're looking for something new and hoping for something entertaining , you're in luck . 
a hugely rewarding experience that's every bit as enlightening , insightful and entertaining as grant's two best films -- four weddings and a funeral and bridget jones's diary . 
a rip-roaring comedy action fest that'll put hairs on your chest . 
if there's no art here , it's still a good yarn -- which is nothing to sneeze at these days . 
simultaneously heart-breaking and very funny , the last kiss is really all about performances . 
there is a subversive element to this disney cartoon , providing unexpected fizzability . 
an unforgettable look at morality , family , and social expectation through the prism of that omnibus tradition called marriage . 
an enjoyable , if occasionally flawed , experiment . 
miyazaki is one of world cinema's most wondrously gifted artists and storytellers . 
if ayurveda can help us return to a sane regimen of eating , sleeping and stress-reducing contemplation , it is clearly a good thing . 
meeting , even exceeding expectations , it's the best sequel since the empire strikes back . . . a majestic achievement , an epic of astonishing grandeur and surprising emotional depth . 
leigh is one of the rare directors who feels acting is the heart and soul of cinema . he allows his cast members to make creative contributions to the story and dialogue . this method almost never fails him , and it works superbly here . 
poetry in motion captured on film . while it can be a bit repetitive , overall it's an entertaining and informative documentary . 
directing with a sure and measured hand , [haneke] steers clear of the sensational and offers instead an unflinching and objective look at a decidedly perverse pathology . 
the entire movie establishes a wonderfully creepy mood . 
i found the ring moderately absorbing , largely for its elegantly colorful look and sound . 
the filmmakers want nothing else than to show us a good time , and in their cheap , b movie way , they succeed . 
amari has dressed up this little parable in a fairly irresistible package full of privileged moments and memorable performances . 
rabbit-proof fence will probably make you angry . but it will just as likely make you weep , and it will do so in a way that doesn't make you feel like a sucker . 
both heartbreaking and heartwarming . . . just a simple fable done in an artless sytle , but it's tremendously moving . 
this masterfully calibrated psychological thriller thrives on its taut performances and creepy atmosphere even if the screenplay falls somewhat short . 
the film's sense of imagery gives it a terrible strength , but it's propelled by the acting . 
the pianist [is] a supremely hopeful cautionary tale of war's madness remembered that we , today , can prevent its tragic waste of life . here is a divine monument to a single man's struggle to regain his life , his dignity and his music . 
strange it is , but delightfully so . 
elegant , mannered and teasing . 
an average coming-of-age tale elevated by the wholesome twist of a pesky mother interfering during her son's discovery of his homosexuality . 
the ingenuity that parker displays in freshening the play is almost in a class with that of wilde himself . 
decasia is what has happened already to so many silent movies , newsreels and the like . the unexpected thing is that its dying , in this shower of black-and-white psychedelia , is quite beautiful . 
a droll , bitchy frolic which pokes fun at the price of popularity and small-town pretension in the lone star state . 
with each of her three protagonists , miller eloquently captures the moment when a woman's life , out of a deep-seated , emotional need , is about to turn onto a different path . 
ryan gosling . . . is at 22 a powerful young actor . 
a minor work yet there's no denying the potency of miller's strange , fleeting brew of hopeful perseverance and hopeless closure . 
as an introduction to the man's theories and influence , derrida is all but useless ; as a portrait of the artist as an endlessly inquisitive old man , however , it's invaluable . 
the film is a verbal duel between two gifted performers . 
imperfect ? yes , but also intriguing and honorable , a worthwhile addition to a distinguished film legacy . 
you'll get the enjoyable basic minimum . but not a whit more . 
what a great way to spend 4 units of your day . 
the movie is hardly a masterpiece , but it does mark ms . bullock's best work in some time . 
as simple and innocent a movie as you can imagine . this is a movie you can trust . 
passionate , irrational , long-suffering but cruel as a tarantula , helga figures prominently in this movie , and helps keep the proceedings as funny for grown-ups as for rugrats . 
 " it's all about the image . " 
feral and uncomfortable . 
vividly conveys the passion , creativity , and fearlessness of one of mexico's most colorful and controversial artists -- a captivating drama that will speak to the nonconformist in us all . 
hollywood ending is not show-stoppingly hilarious , but scathingly witty nonetheless . 
maybe thomas wolfe was right : you can't go home again . 
a compelling yarn , but not quite a ripping one . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , the powerpuff girls is a fast , frenetic , funny , even punny 6 -- aimed specifically at a grade-school audience . 
the film has several strong performances . 
i've never bought from telemarketers , but i bought this movie . 
perfectly pitched between comedy and tragedy , hope and despair , about schmidt instead comes far closer than many movies to expressing the way many of us live -- someplace between consuming self-absorption and insistently demanding otherness . 
the funny thing is , i didn't mind all this contrived nonsense a bit . 
[shyamalan] turns the goose-pimple genre on its empty head and fills it with spirit , purpose and emotionally bruised characters who add up to more than body count . 
a sexy , peculiar and always entertaining costume drama set in renaissance spain , and the fact that it's based on true events somehow makes it all the more compelling . 
an entertaining documentary that freshly considers arguments the bard's immortal plays were written by somebody else . 
a highly spirited , imaginative kid's movie that broaches neo-augustinian theology : is god stuck in heaven because he's afraid of his best-known creation ? 
call it magic realism or surrealism , but miss wonton floats beyond reality with a certain degree of wit and dignity . 
raimi and his team couldn't have done any better in bringing the story of spider-man to the big screen . 
the director explores all three sides of his story with a sensitivity and an inquisitiveness reminiscent of truffaut . 
well-acted , well-directed and , for all its moodiness , not too pretentious . 
it's a satisfying summer blockbuster and worth a look . 
boomers and their kids will have a barrie good time . 
real women have curves wears its empowerment on its sleeve but even its worst harangues are easy to swallow thanks to remarkable performances by ferrera and ontiveros . 
ultimately , " mib ii " succeeds due to its rapid-fire delivery and enough inspired levity that it can't be dismissed as mindless . 
stage director sam mendes showcases tom hanks as a depression era hit-man in this dark tale of revenge . 
sitting in the third row of the imax cinema at sydney's darling harbour , but i sometimes felt as though i was in the tiny two seater plane that carried the giant camera around australia , sweeping and gliding , banking and hovering over some of the most not
the real charm of this trifle is the deadpan comic face of its star , jean reno , who resembles sly stallone in a hot sake half-sleep . 
what's so fun about this silly , outrageous , ingenious thriller is the director's talent . watching a brian depalma movie is like watching an alfred hitchcock movie after drinking twelve beers . 
strip it of all its excess debris , and you'd have a 90-minute , four-star movie . as it is , it's too long and unfocused . 
an immensely entertaining look at some of the unsung heroes of 20th century pop music . 
this familiar rise-and-fall tale is long on glamour and short on larger moralistic consequences , though it's told with sharp ears and eyes for the tenor of the times . 
this beautifully animated epic is never dull . 
brian tufano's handsome widescreen photography and paul grabowsky's excellent music turn this fairly parochial melodrama into something really rather special . 
it makes compelling , provocative and prescient viewing . 
a thoroughly entertaining comedy that uses grant's own twist of acidity to prevent itself from succumbing to its own bathos . 
using a stock plot , about a boy injects just enough freshness into the proceedings to provide an enjoyable 100 minutes in a movie theater . 
what eric schaeffer has accomplished with never again may not , strictly speaking , qualify as revolutionary . but it's defiantly and delightfully against the grain . 
the hard-to-predict and absolutely essential chemistry between the down-to-earth bullock and the nonchalant grant proves to be sensational , and everything meshes in this elegant entertainment . 
a positively thrilling combination of ethnography and all the intrigue , betrayal , deceit and murder of a shakespearean tragedy or a juicy soap opera . 
mr . clooney , mr . kaufman and all their collaborators are entitled to take a deep bow for fashioning an engrossing entertainment out of an almost sure-fire prescription for a critical and commercial disaster . 
definitely funny stuff , but it's more of the 'laughing at' variety than the 'laughing with . '
easily the most thoughtful fictional examination of the root causes of anti-semitism ever seen on screen . 
a gripping drama . 
a real winner -- smart , funny , subtle , and resonant . 
family portrait of need , neurosis and nervy negativity is a rare treat that shows the promise of digital filmmaking . 
the pitch must have read like a discarded house beautiful spread . 
uplifting as only a document of the worst possibilities of mankind can be , and among the best films of the year . 
director david jacobson gives dahmer a consideration that the murderer never game his victims . 
the film has a terrific look and salma hayek has a feel for the character at all stages of her life . 
a decided lack of spontaneity in its execution and a dearth of real poignancy in its epiphanies . 
the performances are remarkable . 
it's burns' visuals , characters and his punchy dialogue , not his plot , that carry waydowntown . 
as literary desecrations go , this makes for perfectly acceptable , occasionally very enjoyable children's entertainment . you'll forget about it by monday , though , and if they're old enough to have developed some taste , so will your kids . 
while i can't say it's on par with the first one , stuart little 2 is a light , fun cheese puff of a movie . 
strange , funny , twisted , brilliant and macabre . 
a genuinely moving and wisely unsentimental drama . 
heaven is a haunting dramatization of a couple's moral ascension . 
the mothman prophecies is best when illustrating the demons bedevilling the modern masculine journey . 
'stock up on silver bullets for director neil marshall's intense freight train of a film . '
plays out with a dogged and eventually winning squareness that would make it the darling of many a kids-and-family-oriented cable channel . 
an entertaining british hybrid of comedy , caper thrills and quirky romance . 
alain choquart's camera barely stops moving , portraying both the turmoil of the time and giving conduct a perpetual sense of urgency , which , for a film that takes nearly three hours to unspool , is both funny and irritating . 
mostly martha could have used a little trimming -- 10 or 15 minutes could be cut and no one would notice -- but it's a pleasurable trifle . the only pain you'll feel as the credits roll is your stomach grumbling for some tasty grub . 
hardly an objective documentary , but it's great cinematic polemic . . . love moore or loathe him , you've got to admire . . . the intensity with which he's willing to express his convictions . 
the mark of a respectable summer blockbuster is one of two things : unadulterated thrills or genuine laughs . 
the film is visually dazzling , the depicted events dramatic , funny and poignant . 
a directorial tour de force by bernard rose , ivans xtc . is one of this year's very best pictures . 
what makes the movie work  to an admittedly limited extent  is the commitment of two genuinely engaging performers . weaver and lapaglia are both excellent , in the kind of low-key way that allows us to forget that they are actually movie folk . 
even the digressions are funny . 
mr . spielberg and his company just want you to enjoy yourselves without feeling conned . and they succeed merrily at their noble endeavor . 
melodrama with a message . 
en s mismo el rey len es un espectculo digno de contemplarse en cine , dvd o en su soberbio montaje teatral ; pero el hacerlo en la pantalla imax es una experiencia colosal . 
a perfectly pleasant if slightly pokey comedy . 
coppola's directorial debut is an incredibly layered and stylistic film that , despite a fairly slow paced , almost humdrum approach to character development , still manages at least a decent attempt at meaningful cinema . 
at the end , when the now computerized yoda finally reveals his martial artistry , the film ascends to a kinetic life so teeming that even cranky adults may rediscover the quivering kid inside . 
wang xiaoshuai directs this intricately structured and well-realized drama that presents a fascinating glimpse of urban life and the class warfare that embroils two young men . 
it's hard to imagine anybody ever being " in the mood " to view a movie as harrowing and painful as the grey zone , but it's equally hard to imagine anybody being able to tear their eyes away from the screen once it's started . 
bogdanovich taps deep into the hearst mystique , entertainingly reenacting a historic scandal . 
a moving tale of love and destruction in unexpected places , unexamined lives . 
clooney directs this film always keeping the balance between the fantastic and the believable . . . 
beautifully produced . 
smart and taut . 
even if you don't understand what on earth is going on , this is a movie that will stimulate hours of post viewing discussion , if only to be reminded of who did what to whom and why . 
 . . . a lesson in prehistoric hilarity . 
a fantastically vital movie that manages to invest real humor , sensuality , and sympathy into a story about two adolescent boys . 
lawrence plumbs personal tragedy and also the human comedy . 
though a capable thriller , somewhere along the way k-19 jettisoned some crucial drama . 
just about the surest bet for an all-around good time at the movies this summer . 
it would be disingenuous to call reno a great film , but you can say that about most of the flicks moving in and out of the multiplex . this is a movie that is what it is : a pleasant distraction , a friday night diversion , an excuse to eat popcorn . 
os universos de chuck barris e charlie kaufman s?o complementares . e igualmente fascinantes . 
there is a certain sense of experimentation and improvisation to this film that may not always work , but it is nevertheless compelling . 
the four feathers has rewards , from the exoticism of its seas of sand to the fierce grandeur of its sweeping battle scenes . 
a delicious , quirky movie with a terrific screenplay and fanciful direction by michael gondry . 
this story still seems timely and important . and there's an element of heartbreak to watching it now , with older and wiser eyes , because we know what will happen after greene's story ends . 
the bodily function jokes are about what you'd expect , but there are rich veins of funny stuff in this movie . 
the performances are amiable and committed , and the comedy more often than not hits the bullseye . 
this time , the hype is quieter , and while the movie is slightly less successful than the first , it's still a rollicking good time for the most part . 
there's plenty to enjoy -- in no small part thanks to lau . 
with a romantic comedy plotline straight from the ages , this cinderella story doesn't have a single surprise up its sleeve . but it does somehow manage to get you under its spell . 
though few will argue that it ranks with the best of herzog's works , invincible shows he's back in form , with an astoundingly rich film . 
 " catch me " feels capable of charming the masses with star power , a pop-induced score and sentimental moments that have become a spielberg trademark . 
by no means a great movie , but it is a refreshingly forthright one . 
the casting of raymond j . barry as the 'assassin' greatly enhances the quality of neil burger's impressive fake documentary . 
despite besson's high-profile name being wasabi's big selling point , there is no doubt that krawczyk deserves a huge amount of the credit for the film's thoroughly winning tone . 
this documentary is a dazzling , remarkably unpretentious reminder of what [evans] had , lost , and got back . 
a thoughtful movie , a movie that is concerned with souls and risk and schemes and the consequences of one's actions . 
as satisfyingly odd and intriguing a tale as it was a century and a half ago . . . has a delightfully dour , deadpan tone and stylistic consistency . 
methodical , measured , and gently tedious in its comedy , secret ballot is a purposefully reductive movie -- which may be why it's so successful at lodging itself in the brain . 
a witty , trenchant , wildly unsentimental but flawed look at the ins and outs of modern moviemaking . 
for most of the distance the picture provides a satisfyingly unsettling ride into the dark places of our national psyche . 
by the standards of knucklehead swill , the hot chick is pretty damned funny . 
one of the most gloriously unsubtle and adrenalized extreme shockers since the evil dead . 
[reaches] wholly believable and heart-wrenching depths of despair . 
an absorbing and unsettling psychological drama . 
this movie may not have the highest production values you've ever seen , but it's the work of an artist , one whose view of america , history and the awkwardness of human life is generous and deep . 
though it's not very well shot or composed or edited , the score is too insistent and the dialogue is frequently overwrought and crudely literal , the film shatters you in waves . 
the entire cast is extraordinarily good . 
yakusho , as always , is wonderful as the long-faced sad sack . . . and his chemistry with shimizu is very believable . 
the film delivers what it promises : a look at the " wild ride " that ensues when brash young men set out to conquer the online world with laptops , cell phones and sketchy business plans . 
young hanks and fisk , who vaguely resemble their celebrity parents , bring fresh good looks and an ease in front of the camera to the work . 
a captivatingly quirky hybrid of character portrait , romantic comedy and beat-the-clock thriller . 
the film sparkles with the the wisdom and humor of its subjects . 
if [jaglom's] latest effort is not the director at his most sparkling , some of its repartee is still worth hearing . 
like the english patient and the unbearable lightness of being , the hours is one of those reputedly " unfilmable " novels that has bucked the odds to emerge as an exquisite motion picture in its own right . 
just about the best straight-up , old-school horror film of the last 15 years . 
a chilling tale of one of the great crimes of 20th century france : the murder of two rich women by their servants in 1933 . 
an oddity , to be sure , but one that you might wind up remembering with a degree of affection rather than revulsion . 
while the film is not entirely successful , it still manages to string together enough charming moments to work . 
a winning piece of work filled with love for the movies of the 1960s . 
e . t . works because its flabbergasting principals , 14-year-old robert macnaughton , 6-year-old drew barrymore and 10-year-old henry thomas , convince us of the existence of the wise , wizened visitor from a faraway planet . 
helps to remind the first world that hiv/aids is far from being yesterday's news . 
a heartening tale of small victories and enduring hope . 
the vistas are sweeping and the acting is far from painful . 
jackson and co have brought back the value and respect for the term epic cinema . 
it may be a somewhat backhanded compliment to say that the film makes the viewer feel like the movie's various victimized audience members after a while , but it also happens to be the movie's most admirable quality
charlotte sometimes is a brilliant movie . it is about irrational , unexplainable life and it seems so real because it does not attempt to filter out the complexity . 
a delightful stimulus for the optic nerves , so much that it's forgivable that the plot feels like every other tale of a totalitarian tomorrow . 
defies logic , the laws of physics and almost anyone's willingness to believe in it . but darned if it doesn't also keep us riveted to our seats . 
a complex psychological drama about a father who returns to his son's home after decades away . 
writer and director otar iosseliani's pleasant tale about a factory worker who escapes for a holiday in venice reveals how we all need a playful respite from the grind to refresh our souls . 
this is not a retread of " dead poets' society . " 
sweet and memorable film . 
a smart , arch and rather cold-blooded comedy . 
keenly observed and refreshingly natural , swimming gets the details right , from its promenade of barely clad bodies in myrtle beach , s . c . , to the adrenaline jolt of a sudden lunch rush at the diner . 
highly watchable stuff . 
 . . . begins on a high note and sustains it beautifully . 
davis . . . gets vivid performances from her cast and pulls off some deft ally mcbeal-style fantasy sequences . 
'it's better to go in knowing full well what's going to happen , but willing to let the earnestness of its execution and skill of its cast take you down a familiar road with a few twists . cynics need not apply . '
funny , somber , absurd , and , finally , achingly sad , bartleby is a fine , understated piece of filmmaking . 
 " red dragon " is entertaining . an obvious copy of one of the best films ever made , how could it not be ? but it is entertaining on an inferior level . it is a popcorn film , not a must-own , or even a must-see . 
succeeds only because bullock and grant were made to share the silver screen . 
both flawed and delayed , martin scorcese's gangs of new york still emerges as his most vital work since goodfellas . 
as any creature-feature fan knows , when you cross toxic chemicals with a bunch of exotic creatures , you get a lot of running around , screaming and death . on that score , the film certainly doesn't disappoint . 
as the movie traces mr . brown's athletic exploits , it is impossible not to be awed by the power and grace of one of the greatest natural sportsmen of modern times . 
a moving and solidly entertaining comedy/drama that should bolster director and co-writer juan jos campanella's reputation in the united states . 
thanks to confident filmmaking and a pair of fascinating performances , the way to that destination is a really special walk in the woods . 
beautifully shot , delicately scored and powered by a set of heartfelt performances , it's a lyrical endeavour . 
a macabre and very stylized swedish fillm about a modern city where all the religious and civic virtues that hold society in place are in tatters . 
a stylistic romp that's always fun to watch . 
informative , intriguing , observant , often touching . . . gives a human face to what's often discussed in purely abstract terms . 
 . . . once the true impact of the day unfolds , the power of this movie is undeniable . 
an honest , sensitive story from a vietnamese point of view . 
 a buoyant romantic comedy about friendship , love , and the truth that we're all in this together . 
the film's intimate camera work and searing performances pull us deep into the girls' confusion and pain as they struggle tragically to comprehend the chasm of knowledge that's opened between them . 
it's the perfect star vehicle for grant , allowing him to finally move away from his usual bumbling , tongue-tied screen persona . 
gaunt , silver-haired and leonine , [harris] brings a tragic dimension and savage full-bodied wit and cunning to the aging sandeman . 
a disturbing examination of what appears to be the definition of a 'bad' police shooting . 
it's been made with an innocent yet fervid conviction that our hollywood has all but lost . 
not only a reminder of how they used to make movies , but also how they sometimes still can be made . 
a three-hour cinema master class . 
eyre is on his way to becoming the american indian spike lee . 
psychologically revealing . 
a witty , whimsical feature debut . 
warm in its loving yet unforgivingly inconsistent depiction of everyday people , relaxed in its perfect quiet pace and proud in its message . i loved this film . 
it provides a grim , upsetting glimpse at the lives of some of the 1 . 2 million palestinians who live in the crowded cities and refugee camps of gaza . 
clint eastwood's blood work is a lot like a well-made pb& j sandwich : familiar , fairly uneventful and boasting no real surprises  but still quite tasty and inviting all the same . 
a movie that will surely be profane , politically charged music to the ears of cho's fans . 
much of this slick and sprightly cgi feature is sufficiently funny to amuse even the most resolutely unreligious parents who escort their little ones to megaplex screenings . 
rarely , a movie is more than a movie . go . 
jacquot's strategy allows his cast the benefit of being able to give full performances . . . while demonstrating vividly that the beauty and power of the opera reside primarily in the music itself . 
quitting delivers a sucker-punch , and its impact is all the greater beause director zhang's last film , the cuddly shower , was a non-threatening multi-character piece centered around a public bath house . 
by not averting his eyes , solondz forces us to consider the unthinkable , the unacceptable , the unmentionable . 
one hour photo may seem disappointing in its generalities , but it's the little nuances that perhaps had to escape from director mark romanek's self-conscious scrutiny to happen , that finally get under your skin . 
while general audiences might not come away with a greater knowledge of the facts of cuban music , they'll be treated to an impressive and highly entertaining celebration of its sounds . 
a fascinating documentary that provides a rounded and revealing overview of this ancient holistic healing system
birthday girl lucks out with chaplin and kidman , who are capable of anteing up some movie star charisma when they need it to sell us on this twisted love story , but who can also negotiate the movie's darker turns . 
an interesting look behind the scenes of chicago-based rock group wilco . . . 
sharp edges and a deep vein of sadness run through its otherwise comic narrative . 
there's lots of cool stuff packed into espn's ultimate x . 
rock solid family fun out of the gates , extremely imaginative through out , but wanes in the middle
as a film director , labute continues to improve . 
the ya-ya's have many secrets and one is - the books are better . translating complex characters from novels to the big screen is an impossible task but they are true to the essence of what it is to be ya-ya . 
the touch is generally light enough and the performances , for the most part , credible . 
i liked about schmidt a lot , but i have a feeling that i would have liked it much more if harry & tonto never existed . 
steers has an unexpectedly adamant streak of warm-blooded empathy for all his disparate manhattan denizens--especially the a * * holes . 
that storytelling has value cannot be denied . not even solondz's thirst for controversy , sketchy characters and immature provocations can fully succeed at cheapening it . 
once the downward spiral comes to pass , auto focus bears out as your typical junkie opera . . . 
a knowing sense of humor and a lot of warmth ignite son of the bride . 
a rich tale of our times , very well told with an appropriate minimum of means . 
the characters are complex and quirky , but entirely believable as the remarkable ensemble cast brings them to life . 
in all fairness , i must report that the children of varying ages in my audience never coughed , fidgeted or romped up and down the aisles for bathroom breaks . 
as gory as the scenes of torture and self-mutilation may be , they are pitted against shimmering cinematography that lends the setting the ethereal beauty of an asian landscape painting . 
efficient , suitably anonymous chiller . 
gorgeous scenes , masterful performances , but the sickly sweet gender normative narrative left an acrid test in this gourmet's mouth . 
the hot topics of the plot are relegated to the background -- a welcome step forward from the sally jesse raphael atmosphere of films like philadelphia and american beauty . 
it's usually a bad sign when directors abandon their scripts and go where the moment takes them , but olympia , wash . , based filmmakers anne de marcken and marilyn freeman did just that and it's what makes their project so interesting . 
a memorable experience that , like many of his works , presents weighty issues colorfully wrapped up in his own idiosyncratic strain of kitschy goodwill . 
executed with such gentle but insistent sincerity , with such good humor and appreciation of the daily grind that only the most hardhearted scrooge could fail to respond . 
the gentle comic treatment of adolescent sturm und drang should please fans of chris fuhrman's posthumously published cult novel . 
director claude chabrol has become the master of innuendo . it is not what you see , it is what you think you see . 
a deftly entertaining film , smartly played and smartly directed . 
a documentary to make the stones weep -- as shameful as it is scary . 
i hope the movie is widely seen and debated with appropriate ferocity and thoughtfulness . 
 a thought-provoking look at how western foreign policy - however well intentioned - can wreak havoc in other cultures . 
asks what truth can be discerned from non-firsthand experience , and specifically questions cinema's capability for recording truth . 
the journey to the secret's eventual discovery is a separate adventure , and thrill enough . 
a quiet , disquieting triumph . 
darkly funny and frequently insightful . 
 . . . the tale of her passionate , tumultuous affair with musset unfolds as sand's masculine persona , with its love of life and beauty , takes form . 
if you want to see a train wreck that you can't look away from , then look no further , because here it is . 
there's so much to look at in metropolis you hate to tear your eyes away from the images long enough to read the subtitles . 
the search for redemption makes for a touching love story , mainly because blanchett and ribisi compellingly tap into a spiritual aspect of their characters' suffering . 
a fast paced and suspenseful argentinian thriller about the shadow side of play . 
a film of ideas and wry comic mayhem . 
at its worst the screenplay is callow , but at its best it is a young artist's thoughtful consideration of fatherhood . 
a worthwhile documentary , whether you're into rap or not , even if it may still leave you wanting more answers as the credits roll . 
fessenden's narrative is just as much about the ownership and redefinition of myth as it is about a domestic unit finding their way to joy . 
that the film opens with maggots crawling on a dead dog is not an out of place metaphor . 
stanley kwan has directed not only one of the best gay love stories ever made , but one of the best love stories of any stripe . 
the concert footage is stirring , the recording sessions are intriguing , and -- on the way to striking a blow for artistic integrity -- this quality band may pick up new admirers . 
norton holds the film together . 
[there's] quite a bit of heart , as you would expect from the directors of the little mermaid and aladdin . 
you won't have any trouble getting kids to eat up these veggies . 
a creaky staircase gothic . 
enjoyably dumb , sweet , and intermittently hilarious -- if you've a taste for the quirky , steal a glimpse . 
a movie that sends you out of the theater feeling like you've actually spent time living in another community . 
light-years ahead of paint-by-number american blockbusters like pearl harbor , at least artistically . 
a fascinating documentary about the long and eventful spiritual journey of the guru who helped launch the new age . 
isabelle huppert excels as the enigmatic mika and anna mouglalis is a stunning new young talent in one of chabrol's most intense psychological mysteries . 
perhaps not since nelson eddy crooned his indian love call to jeanette macdonald has there been a movie so unabashedly canadian , not afraid to risk american scorn or disinterest . 
wedding feels a bit anachronistic . still , not every low-budget movie must be quirky or bleak , and a happy ending is no cinematic sin . 
it's still a comic book , but maguire makes it a comic book with soul . 
brings to a spectacular completion one of the most complex , generous and subversive artworks of the last decade . 
an amusing and unexpectedly insightful examination of sexual jealousy , resentment and the fine line between passion and pretence . 
a fascinating , bombshell documentary that should shame americans , regardless of whether or not ultimate blame finally lies with kissinger . should be required viewing for civics classes and would-be public servants alike . 
adaptation's success in engaging the audience in the travails of creating a screenplay is extraordinary . 
a polished and vastly entertaining caper film that puts the sting back into the con . 
it's no surprise that as a director washington demands and receives excellent performances , from himself and from newcomer derek luke . 
 . . . while each moment of this broken character study is rich in emotional texture , the journey doesn't really go anywhere . 
the film gets close to the chimps the same way goodall did , with a serious minded patience , respect and affection . 
it's an often-cute film but either needs more substance to fill the time or some judicious editing . 
this may be burns's strongest film since the brothers mcmullen . 
what makes this film special is serry's ability to take what is essentially a contained family conflict and put it into a much larger historical context . 
it's quaid who anchors the film with his effortless performance and that trademark grin of his -- so perfect for a ballplayer . 
it is ok for a movie to be something of a sitcom apparatus , if the lines work , the humor has point and the actors are humanly engaged . 
though not for everyone , the guys is a somber trip worth taking . 
will warm your heart without making you feel guilty about it . 
a sly female empowerment movie , although not in a way anyone would expect . 
you really have to salute writer-director haneke ( he adapted elfriede jelinek's novel ) for making a film that isn't nearly as graphic but much more powerful , brutally shocking and difficult to watch . 
it's a wonderful , sobering , heart-felt drama . 
runs on the pure adrenalin of pacino's performance . 
the paradiso's rusted-out ruin and ultimate collapse during the film's final ( restored ) thirdemotionally belittle a cinema classic . sometimes shorter is better . 
phillip noyce and all of his actors -- as well as his cinematographer , christopher doyle -- understand the delicate forcefulness of greene's prose , and it's there on the screen in their version of the quiet american . 
the film just might turn on many people to opera , in general , an art form at once visceral and spiritual , wonderfully vulgar and sublimely lofty -- and as emotionally grand as life . 
as a vehicle to savour binoche's skill , the film is well worthwhile . 
 . . . wise and elegiac . . . 
the huskies are beautiful , the border collie is funny and the overall feeling is genial and decent . 
whatever complaints i might have , i'd take [its] earnest errors and hard-won rewards over the bombastic self-glorification of other feel-good fiascos like antwone fisher or the emperor's club any time . 
mastering its formidable arithmetic of cameras and souls , group articulates a flood of emotion . 
a pretty decent kid-pleasing , tolerable-to-adults lark of a movie . 
even during the climactic hourlong cricket match , boredom never takes hold . 
combine the paranoid claustrophobia of a submarine movie with the unsettling spookiness of the supernatural -- why didn't hollywood think of this sooner ? 
like kubrick , soderbergh isn't afraid to try any genre and to do it his own way . 
nothing can detract from the affection of that moral favorite : friends will be friends through thick and thin . 
if the film has a problem , its shortness disappoints : you want the story to go on and on . 
unlike most anime , whose most ardent fans outside japan seem to be introverted young men with fantasy fetishes , metropolis never seems hopelessly juvenile . 
the plot twists give i am trying to break your heart an attraction it desperately needed . 
the most brilliant and brutal uk crime film since jack carter went back to newcastle , the first half of gangster no . 1 drips with style and , at times , blood . 
like its new england characters , most of whom wander about in thick clouds of denial , the movie eventually gets around to its real emotional business , striking deep chords of sadness . 
the bai brothers have taken an small slice of history and opened it up for all of us to understand , and they've told a nice little story in the process . 
flamboyant in some movies and artfully restrained in others , 65-year-old jack nicholson could be looking at his 12th oscar nomination by proving that he's now , more than ever , choosing his roles with the precision of the insurance actuary . 
 . . . is there a deeper , more direct connection between these women , one that spans time and reveals meaning ? you bet there is and it's what makes this rather convoluted journey worth taking . 
the most amazing super-sized dosage of goofball stunts any " jackass " fan could want . 
real women may have many agendas , but it also will win you over , in a big way . 
young everlyn sampi , as the courageous molly craig , simply radiates star-power potential in this remarkable and memorable film . 
surprisingly powerful and universal . 
apart from its own considerable achievement , metropolis confirms tezuka's status as both the primary visual influence on the anim tradition and its defining philosophical conscience . 
i'll put it this way : if you're in the mood for a melodrama narrated by talking fish , this is the movie for you . 
morvern callar confirms lynne ramsay as an important , original talent in international cinema . 
well-done supernatural thriller with keen insights into parapsychological phenomena and the soulful nuances of the grieving process . 
a plethora of engaging diatribes on the meaning of 'home , ' delivered in grand passion by the members of the various households . 
it's technically sumptuous but also almost wildly alive . 
this film puts wang at the forefront of china's sixth generation of film makers . 
it's refreshing to see a movie that embraces its old-fashioned themes and in the process comes out looking like something wholly original . 
wiseman is patient and uncompromising , letting his camera observe and record the lives of women torn apart by a legacy of abuse . 
there's none of the happily-ever -after spangle of monsoon wedding in late marriage -- and that's part of what makes dover kosashvili's outstanding feature debut so potent . 
an ingenious and often harrowing look at damaged people and how families can offer either despair or consolation . 
arguably the best script that besson has written in years . 
it's no lie -- big fat liar is a real charmer . 
invigorating , surreal , and resonant with a rainbow of emotion . 
director alfonso cuaron gets vivid , convincing performances from a fine cast , and generally keeps things going at a rapid pace , occasionally using an omniscient voice-over narrator in the manner of french new wave films . 
pray has really done his subject justice . 
an unexpectedly sweet story of sisterhood . 
maintains your sympathy for this otherwise challenging soul by letting you share her one-room world for a while . 
a subtle , humorous , illuminating study of politics , power and social mobility . 
even if you have no interest in the gang-infested , east-vs . -west coast rap wars , this modern mob music drama never fails to fascinate . 
nair's attention to detail creates an impeccable sense of place , while thurman and lewis give what can easily be considered career-best performances . 
berry's saucy , full-bodied performance gives this aging series a much needed kick , making " die another day " one of the most entertaining bonds in years
red dragon is less baroque and showy than hannibal , and less emotionally affecting than silence . but , like silence , it's a movie that gets under your skin . 
caviezel embodies the transformation of his character completely . 
a creepy , intermittently powerful study of a self-destructive man . . . about as unsettling to watch as an exploratory medical procedure or an autopsy . 
pacino and williams seem to keep upping the ante on each other , just as their characters do in the film . what results is the best performance from either in years . 
the cast is top-notch and i predict there will be plenty of female audience members drooling over michael idemoto as michael . 
bart and berling are both superb , while huppert . . . is magnificent . 
all the actors are good in pauline & paulette but van der groen , described as 'belgium's national treasure , ' is especially terrific as pauline . 
miyazaki has created such a vibrant , colorful world , it's almost impossible not to be swept away by the sheer beauty of his images . 
muccino seems to be exploring the idea of why human beings long for what they don't have , and how this gets us in trouble . but even while his characters are acting horribly , he is always sympathetic . 
whether or not you buy mr . broomfield's findings , the film acquires an undeniable entertainment value as the slight , pale mr . broomfield continues to force himself on people and into situations that would make lesser men run for cover . 
ozpetek joins the ranks of those gay filmmakers who have used the emigre experience to explore same-sex culture in ways that elude the more nationally settled . 
an eerily suspenseful , deeply absorbing piece that works as a treatise on spirituality as well as a solid sci-fi thriller . 
i've never seen or heard anything quite like this film , and i recommend it for its originality alone . 
nicole kidman makes it a party worth attending . 
catch it . . . if you can ! 
the direction has a fluid , no-nonsense authority , and the performances by harris , phifer and cam'ron seal the deal . 
the komediant is a tale worth catching . 
the writing is clever and the cast is appealing . 
the simplicity of the way home has few equals this side of aesop
life on the rez is no picnic : this picture shows you why . 
spielberg has managed to marry science fiction with film noir and action flicks with philosophical inquiry . 
it's the type of film about growing up that we don't see often enough these days : realistic , urgent , and not sugarcoated in the least . 
a taut , sobering film . 
exudes the fizz of a busby berkeley musical and the visceral excitement of a sports extravaganza . 
it's full of cheesy dialogue , but great trashy fun that finally returns de palma to his pulpy thrillers of the early '80s . 
the results , if not memorable , are at least interesting . 
a quietly moving look back at what it was to be iranian-american in 1979 . 
like a veteran head cutter , barbershop is tuned in to its community . 
i'm sure mainstream audiences will be baffled , but , for those with at least a minimal appreciation of woolf and clarissa dalloway , the hours represents two of those well spent . 
you live the mood rather than savour the story . 
angela gheorghiu as famous prima donna floria tosca , roberto alagna as her lover mario cavaradossi , and ruggero as the villainous , lecherous police chief scarpia , all sing beautifully and act adequately . 
while there are times when the film's reach exceeds its grasp , the production works more often than it doesn't . 
while scorsese's bold images and generally smart casting ensure that " gangs " is never lethargic , the movie is hindered by a central plot that's peppered with false starts and populated by characters who are nearly impossible to care about . 
watching this gentle , mesmerizing portrait of a man coming to terms with time , you barely realize your mind is being blown . 
the beautifully choreographed kitchen ballet is simple but absorbing . 
there's . . . an underlying old world sexism to monday morning that undercuts its charm . 
 " the best disney movie since the lion king " 
transcends its agenda to deliver awe-inspiring , at times sublime , visuals and offer a fascinating glimpse into the subculture of extreme athletes whose derring-do puts the x into the games . 
spare yet audacious . . . 
think of it as gidget , only with muscles and a lot more smarts , but just as endearing and easy to watch . 
there is no solace here , no entertainment value , merely a fierce lesson in where filmmaking can take us . 
giggling at the absurdities and inconsistencies is part of the fun . but the talented cast alone will keep you watching , as will the fight scenes . 
arteta paints a picture of lives lived in a state of quiet desperation . 
drug abuse , infidelity and death aren't usually comedy fare , but turpin's film allows us to chuckle through the angst . 
while insomnia is in many ways a conventional , even predictable remake , nolan's penetrating undercurrent of cerebral and cinemantic flair lends ( it ) stimulating depth . 
efteriades gives the neighborhood -- scenery , vibe and all -- the cinematic equivalent of a big , tender hug . 
this is a nicely handled affair , a film about human darkness but etched with a light ( yet unsentimental ) touch . 
amazing ! a college story that works even without vulgarity , sex scenes , and cussing ! 
the amazing film work is so convincing that by movies' end you'll swear you are wet in some places and feel sand creeping in others . 
a raunchy and frequently hilarious follow-up to the gifted korean american stand-up's i'm the one that i want . 
if you ever wanted to be an astronaut , this is the ultimate movie experience - it's informative and breathtakingly spectacular . 
while parker and co-writer catherine di napoli are faithful to melville's plotline , they and a fully engaged supporting cast . . . have made the old boy's characters more quick-witted than any english lit major would have thought possible . 
a smart , sassy and exceptionally charming romantic comedy . 
surprisingly insightful
there are flaws , but also stretches of impact and moments of awe ; we're wrapped up in the characters , how they make their choices , and why . 
a gift to anyone who loves both dance and cinema
it seems grant doesn't need the floppy hair and the self-deprecating stammers after all . 
a reminder that beyond all the hype and recent digital glitz , spielberg knows how to tell us about people . 
one of the finest , most humane and important holocaust movies ever made . 
an engrossing and infectiously enthusiastic documentary . 
a beautiful , timeless and universal tale of heated passions -- jealousy , betrayal , forgiveness and murder . 
a culture-clash comedy that , in addition to being very funny , captures some of the discomfort and embarrassment of being a bumbling american in europe . 
shattering , devastating documentary on two maladjusted teens in a downward narcotized spiral . extraordinary debut from josh koury . 
the most compelling performance of the year adds substantial depth to this shocking testament to anti-semitism and neo-fascism . 
for those who are intrigued by politics of the '70s , the film is every bit as fascinating as it is flawed . 
all right , so it's not a brilliant piece of filmmaking , but it is a funny ( sometimes hilarious ) comedy with a deft sense of humor about itself , a playful spirit and a game cast . 
douglas mcgrath's nicholas nickleby does dickens as it should be done cinematically . 
it's a lovely , eerie film that casts an odd , rapt spell . 
the quirky and recessive charms of co-stars martin donovan and mary-louise parker help overcome the problematic script . 
it's good to see michael caine whipping out the dirty words and punching people in the stomach again . 
you just know something terrible is going to happen . but when it does , you're entirely unprepared . 
it's fun , wispy , wise and surprisingly inoffensive for a film about a teen in love with his stepmom . 
able to provide insight into a fascinating part of theater history . 
an unflinching , complex portrait of a modern israel that is rarely seen on-screen . 
a jewish ww ii doc that isn't trying simply to out-shock , out-outrage or out-depress its potential audience ! who knew . . . 
it's a familiar story , but one that is presented with great sympathy and intelligence . 
gently humorous and touching . 
it won't hold up over the long haul , but in the moment , finch's tale provides the forgettable pleasures of a saturday matinee . 
kinnear's performance is a career-defining revelation . 
the film is predictable in the reassuring manner of a beautifully sung holiday carol . 
 . . . hits every cliche we've come to expect , including the assumption that " crazy " people are innocent , childlike and inherently funny . 
the strong subject matter continues to shock throughout the film . not everyone will play the dark , challenging tune taught by the piano teacher . 
a certain sexiness underlines even the dullest tangents . 
you may be captivated , as i was , by its moods , and by its subtly transformed star , and still wonder why paul thomas anderson ever had the inclination to make the most sincere and artful movie in which adam sandler will probably ever appear . 
there is no substitute for on-screen chemistry , and when friel pulls the strings that make williams sink into melancholia , the reaction in williams is as visceral as a gut punch . 
that old adage about women being unknowable gets an exhilarating new interpretation in morvern callar . 
a mix of gritty realism , crisp storytelling and radiant compassion that effortlessly draws you in . 
after watching it , you can only love the players it brings to the fore for the gifted but no-nonsense human beings they are and for the still-inestimable contribution they have made to our shared history . 
in his u . s . debut , mr . schnitzler proves himself a deft pace master and stylist . 
ultimate x is a ride , basically the kind of greatest-hits reel that might come with a subscription to espn the magazine . 
rich in shadowy metaphor and as sharp as a samurai sword , jiang wen's devils on the doorstep is a wartime farce in the alternately comic and gut-wrenching style of joseph heller or kurt vonnegut . 
offers a clear-eyed chronicle of a female friendship that is more complex and honest than anything represented in a hollywood film . 
a winning comedy with its wry observations about long-lived friendships and the ways in which we all lose track of ourselves by trying to please others . 
its cast full of caffeinated comedy performances more than make up for its logical loopholes , which fly by so fast there's no time to think about them anyway . 
lohman adapts to the changes required of her , but the actress and director peter kosminsky never get the audience to break through the wall her character erects
although it includes a fair share of dumb drug jokes and predictable slapstick , " orange county " is far funnier than it would seem to have any right to be . 
for a movie audience , the hours doesn't connect in a neat way , but introduces characters who illuminate mysteries of sex , duty and love . 
a bright , inventive , thoroughly winning flight of revisionist fancy . 
ozpetek's effort has the scope and shape of an especially well-executed television movie . 
gra?as s intera??es entre seus personagens , o filme torna-se n?o apenas uma histria divertida sobre uma curiosa persegui??o , mas tambm um belo estudo de personagens . 
affirms the gifts of all involved , starting with spielberg and going right through the ranks of the players -- on-camera and off -- that he brings together . 
a delightful little film that revels in its own simplicity , mostly martha will leave you with a smile on your face and a grumble in your stomach . 
makes one thing abundantly clear . american musical comedy as we know it wouldn't exist without the precedent of yiddish theater , whose jolly , fun-for-fun's-sake communal spirit goes to the essence of broadway . 
deepa mehta provides an accessible introduction as well as some intelligent observations on the success of bollywood in the western world . 
if anything , the film is doing something of a public service -- shedding light on a group of extremely talented musicians who might otherwise go unnoticed and underappreciated by music fans . 
in addition to gluing you to the edge of your seat , changing lanes is also a film of freshness , imagination and insight . 
pan nalin's exposition is beautiful and mysterious , and the interviews that follow , with the practitioners of this ancient indian practice , are as subtle and as enigmatic . 
the mood , look and tone of the film fit the incredible storyline to a t . 
it's crafty , energetic and smart -- the kid is sort of like a fourteen-year old ferris bueller . 
a work of extraordinary journalism , but it is also a work of deft and subtle poetry . 
it's funny and human and really pretty damned wonderful , all at once . 
at 78 minutes it just zings along with vibrance and warmth . 
a strangely stirring experience that finds warmth in the coldest environment and makes each crumb of emotional comfort feel like a 10-course banquet . 
sometimes this 'blood' seems as tired as its protagonist . . . still , the pulse never disappears entirely , and the picture crosses the finish line winded but still game . 
the stripped-down dramatic constructs , austere imagery and abstract characters are equal parts poetry and politics , obvious at times but evocative and heartfelt . 
dogtown and z-boys more than exposes the roots of the skateboarding boom that would become " the punk kids' revolution . " 
 . . . plenty of warmth to go around , with music and laughter and the love of family . 
it'll keep you wide awake and . . . very tense . 
could use a little more humanity , but it never lacks in eye-popping visuals . 
 ( danny huston gives ) an astounding performance that deftly , gradually reveals a real human soul buried beneath a spellbinding serpent's smirk . 
these three films form a remarkably cohesive whole , both visually and thematically , through their consistently sensitive and often exciting treatment of an ignored people . 
a funny and well-contructed black comedy where the old adage " be careful what you wish for " is given a full workout . 
it reaffirms life as it looks in the face of death . 
the film is reasonably entertaining , though it begins to drag two-thirds through , when the melodramatic aspects start to overtake the comedy . 
this is more fascinating -- being real -- than anything seen on jerry springer . 
a different movie -- sometimes tedious -- by a director many viewers would like to skip but film buffs should get to know . 
williams plays sy , another of his open-faced , smiling madmen , like the killer in insomnia . he does this so well you don't have the slightest difficulty accepting him in the role . 
twist open the ouzo ! it's time to let your hair down  greek style . a vibrant whirlwind of love , family and all that goes with it , my big fat greek wedding is a non-stop funny feast of warmth , colour and cringe . 
thought-provoking and stylish , if also somewhat hermetic . 
broomfield is energized by volletta wallace's maternal fury , her fearlessness , and because of that , his film crackles . 
while it has definite weaknesses -- like a rather unbelievable love interest and a meandering ending -- this '60s caper film is a riveting , brisk delight . 
funny in a sick , twisted sort of way . 
if cinema had been around to capture the chaos of france in the 1790's , one imagines the result would look like something like this . 
it's a talking head documentary , but a great one . 
the fast runner' transports the viewer into an unusual space
ultimately engages less for its story of actorly existential despair than for its boundary-hopping formal innovations and glimpse into another kind of chinese 'cultural revolution . '
 . . . a solid , well-formed satire . 
as part of mr . dong's continuing exploration of homosexuality in america , family fundamentals is an earnest study in despair . 
most consumers of lo mein and general tso's chicken barely give a thought to the folks who prepare and deliver it , so , hopefully , this film will attach a human face to all those little steaming cartons . 
hatosy . . . portrays young brendan with his usual intelligence and subtlety , not to mention a convincing brogue . 
the filmmakers' eye for detail and the high standards of performance convey a strong sense of the girls' environment . 
uneven , self-conscious but often hilarious spoof . 
even bigger and more ambitious than the first installment , spy kids 2 looks as if it were made by a highly gifted 12-year-old instead of a grown man . 
thanks to the chateau's balance of whimsicality , narrative discipline and serious improvisation , almost every relationship and personality in the film yields surprises . 
alan and his fellow survivors are idiosyncratic enough to lift the movie above its playwriting 101 premise . 
fresh and raw like a blown-out vein , narc takes a walking-dead , cop-flick subgenre and beats new life into it . 
the premise of jason x is silly but strangely believable . 
it's a wise and powerful tale of race and culture forcefully told , with superb performances throughout . 
an awfully good , achingly human picture . 
the cast comes through even when the movie doesn't . 
you'll laugh at either the obviousness of it all or its stupidity or maybe even its inventiveness , but the point is , you'll laugh . 
definitely worth 95 minutes of your time . 
the film jolts the laughs from the audience--as if by cattle prod . 
a sexy , surprising romance . . . idemoto and kim make a gorgeous pair . . . their scenes brim with sexual possibility and emotional danger . 
toes the fine line between cheese and earnestness remarkably well ; everything is delivered with such conviction that it's hard not to be carried away . 
whereas oliver stone's conspiracy thriller jfk was long , intricate , star-studded and visually flashy , interview with the assassin draws its considerable power from simplicity . 
funny , sexy , devastating and incurably romantic . 
triple x is a double agent , and he's one bad dude . when you've got the wildly popular vin diesel in the equation , it adds up to big box office bucks all but guaranteed . 
very well-written and very well-acted . 
a powerful and telling story that examines forbidden love , racial tension , and other issues that are as valid today as they were in the 1950s . 
you emerge dazed , confused as to whether you've seen pornography or documentary . 
it ain't art , by a long shot , but unlike last year's lame musketeer , this dumas adaptation entertains . 
likeable thanks to its cast , its cuisine and its quirky tunes . 
chilling in its objective portrait of dreary , lost twenty-first century america . 
highly recommended as an engrossing story about a horrifying historical event and the elements which contributed to it . 
 . . . there's enough cool fun here to warm the hearts of animation enthusiasts of all ages . 
it manages to squeeze by on angelina jolie's surprising flair for self-deprecating comedy . 
secretary manages a neat trick , bundling the flowers of perversity , comedy and romance into a strangely tempting bouquet of a movie . 
judith and zaza's extended bedroom sequence . . . is so intimate and sensual and funny and psychologically self-revealing that it makes most of what passes for sex in the movies look like cheap hysterics . 
photographed with melancholy richness and eloquently performed yet also decidedly uncinematic . 
a knowing look at female friendship , spiked with raw urban humor . 
as i settled into my world war ii memories , i found myself strangely moved by even the corniest and most hackneyed contrivances . 
the overall effect is awe and affection -- and a strange urge to get on a board and , uh , shred , dude . 
it's that rare family movie -- genuine and sweet without relying on animation or dumb humor . 
the trinity assembly approaches the endeavor with a shocking lack of irony , and george ratliff's documentary , hell house , reflects their earnestness  which makes for a terrifying film . 
confessions may not be a straightforward bio , nor does it offer much in the way of barris' motivations , but the film is an oddly fascinating depiction of an architect of pop culture . 
an intoxicating experience . 
a special kind of movie , this melancholic film noir reminded me a lot of memento . . . 
simple , poignant and leavened with humor , it's a film that affirms the nourishing aspects of love and companionship . 
together , miller , kuras and the actresses make personal velocity into an intricate , intimate and intelligent journey . 
the wonder of mostly martha is the performance of gedeck , who makes martha enormously endearing . 
with notorious c . h . o . cho proves she has the stuff to stand tall with pryor , carlin and murphy . 
less front-loaded and more shapely than the two-hour version released here in 1990 . 
watching war photographer , you come to believe that nachtwey hates the wars he shows and empathizes with the victims he reveals . 
[a] real pleasure in its laid-back way . 
some may choose to interpret the film's end as hopeful or optimistic but i think payne is after something darker . 
though it runs 163 minutes , safe conduct is anything but languorous . it's packed to bursting with incident , and with scores of characters , some fictional , some from history . 
a much better documentary -- more revealing , more emotional and more surprising -- than its pedestrian english title would have you believe . 
notwithstanding my problem with the movie's final half hour , i'm going to recommend secretary , based on the wonderful acting clinic put on by spader and gyllenhaal , and also the unique way shainberg goes about telling what at heart is a sweet little girl-
a well-crafted film that is all the more remarkable because it achieves its emotional power and moments of revelation with restraint and a delicate ambiguity . 
the film has the uncanny ability to right itself precisely when you think it's in danger of going wrong . 
my big fat greek wedding is that rare animal known as 'a perfect family film , ' because it's about family . 
would make an excellent companion piece to the similarly themed 'the french lieutenant's woman . '
 . . . with the gifted pearce on hand to keep things on semi-stable ground dramatically , this retooled machine is ultimately effective enough at achieving the modest , crowd-pleasing goals it sets for itself . 
a movie that's just plain awful but still manages to entertain on a guilty-pleasure , so-bad-it's-funny level . 
a disoriented but occasionally disarming saga packed with moments out of an alice in wonderland adventure , a stalker thriller , and a condensed season of tv's big brother . 
functions as both a revealing look at the collaborative process and a timely , tongue-in-cheek profile of the corporate circus that is the recording industry in the current climate of mergers and downsizing . 
with a confrontational stance , todd solondz takes aim on political correctness and suburban families . 
a mess , but it's a sincere mess . 
this odd , distant portuguese import more or less borrows from bad lieutenant and les vampires , and comes up with a kind of art-house gay porn film . 
for a debut film , skin of man , heart of beast feels unusually assured . 
a photographic marvel of sorts , and it's certainly an invaluable record of that special fishy community . 
it's soulful and unslick , and that's apparently just what [aniston] has always needed to grow into a movie career . 
although olivier assayas' elegantly appointed period drama seems , at times , padded with incident in the way of a too-conscientious adaptation . . . its three-hour running time plays closer to two . 
a jaw-droppingly beautiful work that upends nearly every clich of japanese animation while delivering a more than satisfactory amount of carnage . 
terry is a sort of geriatric dirty harry , which will please eastwood's loyal fans -- and suits the story , wherein our hero must ride roughshod over incompetent cops to get his man . 
parts seem like they were lifted from terry gilliam's subconscious , pressed through kafka's meat grinder and into bu?uel's casings
'like a child with an important message to tell . . . [skins'] faults are easy to forgive because the intentions are lofty . '
a delightful entree in the tradition of food movies . 
an escapist confection that's pure entertainment . 
the ring is worth a look , if you don't demand much more than a few cheap thrills from your halloween entertainment . 
the movie ultimately relies a bit too heavily on grandstanding , emotional , rocky-like moments . . . but it's such a warm and charming package that you'll feel too happy to argue much . 
reassuring , retro uplifter . 
throwing it all away for the fleeting joys of love's brief moment . 
armed with a game supporting cast , from the pitch-perfect forster to the always hilarious meara and levy , like mike shoots and scores , doing its namesake proud . 
a decent-enough nail-biter that stands a good chance of being the big hit franklin needs to stay afloat in hollywood . 
begins like a docu-drama but builds its multi-character story with a flourish . 
one of the most genuinely sweet films to come along in quite some time . 
after an uncertain start , murder hits and generally sustains a higher plateau with bullock's memorable first interrogation of gosling . 
the story ultimately takes hold and grips hard . 
a bit of a downer and a little over-dramatic at times , but this is a beautiful film for people who like their romances to have that french realism . 
an emotionally strong and politically potent piece of cinema . 
enticing and often funny documentary . 
going to this movie is a little like chewing whale blubber - it's an acquired taste that takes time to enjoy , but it's worth it , even if it does take 3 hours to get through . 
a portrait of hell so shattering it's impossible to shake . 
almodovar is an imaginative teacher of emotional intelligence in this engaging film about two men who discover what william james once called 'the gift of tears . '
better than the tepid star trek : insurrection ; falls short of first contact because the villain couldn't pick the lint off borg queen alice krige's cape ; and finishes half a parsec ( a nose ) ahead of generations . 
at times a bit melodramatic and even a little dated ( depending upon where you live ) , ignorant fairies is still quite good-natured and not a bad way to spend an hour or two . 
tense , terrific , sweaty-palmed fun . 
majidi's direction has never been smoother or more confident . 
visually captivating . 
what a bewilderingly brilliant and entertaining movie this is . 
hard , endearing , caring , warm . bring tissues . 
a thriller with an edge -- which is to say that it doesn't follow the stale , standard , connect-the-dots storyline which has become commonplace in movies that explore the seamy underbelly of the criminal world . 
 " me without you " is a probing examination of a female friendship set against a few dynamic decades . 
inherently caustic and oddly whimsical , the film chimes in on the grieving process and strangely draws the audience into the unexplainable pain and eccentricities that are attached to the concept of loss . 
though frodo's quest remains unfulfilled , a hardy group of determined new zealanders has proved its creative mettle . 
it's a square , sentimental drama that satisfies , as comfort food often can . 
pure cinematic intoxication , a wildly inventive mixture of comedy and melodrama , tastelessness and swooning elegance . 
ramsay is clearly extraordinarily talented , and based on three short films and two features , here's betting her third feature will be something to behold . 
i was impressed by how many tit-for-tat retaliatory responses the filmmakers allow before pulling the plug on the conspirators and averting an american-russian armageddon . 
a classy , sprightly spin on film . 
fast , frantic and fun , but also soon forgotten
a spiffy animated feature about an unruly adolescent boy who is yearning for adventure and a chance to prove his worth . 
devos and cassel have tremendous chemistry -- their sexual and romantic tension , while never really vocalized , is palpable . 
fulfills the minimum requirement of disney animation . 
a moving , if uneven , success . 
 with one exception , every blighter in this particular south london housing project digs into dysfunction like it's a big , comforting jar of marmite , to be slathered on crackers and served as a feast of bleakness . 
wickedly funny , visually engrossing , never boring , this movie challenges us to think about the ways we consume pop culture . 
there's plenty to impress about e . t . 
a chronicle not only of one man's quest to be president , but of how that man single-handedly turned a plane full of hard-bitten , cynical journalists into what was essentially , by campaign's end , an extended publicity department . 
until it goes off the rails in its final 10 or 15 minutes , wendigo , larry fessenden's spooky new thriller , is a refreshingly smart and newfangled variation on several themes derived from far less sophisticated and knowing horror films . 
[woo's] most resonant film since the killer . 
collateral damage is trash , but it earns extra points by acting as if it weren't . 
a whole lot of fun and funny in the middle , though somewhat less hard-hitting at the start and finish . 
maybe it is formula filmmaking , but there's nothing wrong with that if the film is well-crafted and this one is . 
[fincher's] camera sense and assured pacing make it an above-average thriller . 
the film is insightful about kissinger's background and history . 
an engrossing portrait of a man whose engaging manner and flamboyant style made him a truly larger-than-life character . 
a lot of the credit for the film's winning tone must go to grant , who hasn't lost a bit of the dry humor that first made audiences on both sides of the atlantic love him . 
exploits [headbanger] stereotypes in good fun , while adding a bit of heart and unsettling subject matter . 
a journey that is as difficult for the audience to take as it is for the protagonist -- yet it's potentially just as rewarding . 
ratliff's two previous titles , plutonium circus and purgatory county show his penchant for wry , contentious configurations , and this film is part of that delicate canon . 
from its invitingly upbeat overture to its pathos-filled but ultimately life-affirming finale , martin is a masterfully conducted work . 
passions , obsessions , and loneliest dark spots are pushed to their most virtuous limits , lending the narrative an unusually surreal tone . 
a comedy that swings and jostles to the rhythms of life . 
at times auto focus feels so distant you might as well be watching it through a telescope . yet in its own aloof , unreachable way it's so fascinating you won't be able to look away for a second . 
if you're part of her targeted audience , you'll cheer . otherwise , maybe . 
as animation increasingly emphasizes the computer and the cool , this is a film that takes a stand in favor of tradition and warmth . 
blade ii merges bits and pieces from fighting games , wire fu , horror movies , mystery , james bond , wrestling , sci-fi and anime into one big bloody stew . 
instead of hitting the audience over the head with a moral , schrader relies on subtle ironies and visual devices to convey point of view . 
k-19 will not go down in the annals of cinema as one of the great submarine stories , but it is an engaging and exciting narrative of man confronting the demons of his own fear and paranoia . 
contrived as this may sound , mr . rose's updating works surprisingly well . 
a glib but bouncy bit of sixties-style slickness in which the hero might wind up caught but the audience gets pure escapism . 
lavishly , exhilaratingly tasteless . 
you don't need to be a hip-hop fan to appreciate scratch , and that's the mark of a documentary that works . 
between bursts of automatic gunfire , the story offers a trenchant critique of capitalism . 
combines improbable melodrama ( gored bullfighters , comatose ballerinas ) with subtly kinky bedside vigils and sensational denouements , and yet at the end , we are undeniably touched . 
while the story's undeniably hard to follow , iwai's gorgeous visuals seduce . 
if you can get past the taboo subject matter , it will be well worth your time . 
a lovely film . . . elegant , witty and beneath a prim exterior unabashedly romantic . . . hugely enjoyable in its own right though not really faithful to its source's complexity . 
scooby doo is surely everything its fans are hoping it will be , and in that sense is a movie that deserves recommendation . 
[a] devastatingly powerful and astonishingly vivid holocaust drama . 
a solid cast , assured direction and complete lack of modern day irony . 
these characters are so well established that the gang feels comfortable with taking insane liberties and doing the goofiest stuff out of left field , and i'm all for that . 
a sun-drenched masterpiece , part parlor game , part psychological case study , part droll social satire . 
worth a look as a curiosity . 
you watch for that sense of openness , the little surprises . 
director peter kosminsky gives these women a forum to demonstrate their acting 'chops' and they take full advantage . 
auto focus is not your standard hollywood bio-pic . schrader aims to present an unflinching look at one man's downfall , brought about by his lack of self-awareness . 
the bourne identity shouldn't be half as entertaining as it is , but director doug liman and his colleagues have managed to pack it with enough action to satisfy the boom-bam crowd without a huge sacrifice of character and mood . 
for veggietales fans , this is more appetizing than a side dish of asparagus . if you're not a fan , it might be like trying to eat brussels sprouts . 
remove spider-man the movie from its red herring surroundings and it's apparent that this is one summer film that satisfies . 
the whole mildly pleasant outing -- the r rating is for brief nudity and a grisly corpse -- remains aloft not on its own self-referential hot air , but on the inspired performance of tim allen . 
a gorgeously strange movie , heaven is deeply concerned with morality , but it refuses to spell things out for viewers . 
the emperor's club , ruthless in its own placid way , finds one of our most conservative and hidebound movie-making traditions and gives it new texture , new relevance , new reality . 
it's truly awful and heartbreaking subject matter , but one whose lessons are well worth revisiting as many times as possible . 
though intrepid in exploring an attraction that crosses sexual identity , ozpetek falls short in showing us antonia's true emotions . . . but at the very least , his secret life will leave you thinking . 
there is little question that this is a serious work by an important director who has something new to say about how , in the flip-flop of courtship , we often reel in when we should be playing out . 
the message of such reflections--intentional or not--is that while no art grows from a vacuum , many artists exist in one . 
gooding is the energetic frontman , and it's hard to resist his enthusiasm , even if the filmmakers come up with nothing original in the way of slapstick sequences . 
the otherwise good-naturedness of mr . deeds , with its embrace of sheer goofiness and cameos of less- than-likely new york celebrities . . . certainly raises the film above anything sandler's been attached to before . 
the movie is brilliant , really . it is philosophy , illustrated through everyday events . 
it's stylishly directed with verve . . . 
gives an intriguing twist to the french coming-of-age genre . 
offers an interesting look at the rapidly changing face of beijing . 
a solid , psychological action film from hong kong . 
see it now , before the inevitable hollywood remake flattens out all its odd , intriguing wrinkles . 
holm does his sly , intricate magic , and iben hjelje is entirely appealing as pumpkin . 
an enjoyable feel-good family comedy regardless of race . 
features what is surely the funniest and most accurate depiction of writer's block ever . 
it would take a complete moron to foul up a screen adaptation of oscar wilde's classic satire . 
it's bright , pristine style and bold colors make it as much fun as reading an oversized picture book before bedtime . 
in the long , dishonorable history of quickie teen-pop exploitation , like mike stands out for its only partly synthetic decency . 
bravo for history rewritten , and for the uncompromising knowledge that the highest power of all is the power of love . 
lead actress ga? , she of the impossibly long limbs and sweetly conspiratorial smile , is a towering siren . 
even if you've seen " stomp " ( the stage show ) , you still have to see this ! 
 . . . a light , yet engrossing piece . lux , now in her eighties , does a great combination act as narrator , jewish grandmother and subject  taking us through a film that is part biography , part entertainment and part history . 
it's a setup so easy it borders on facile , but keeping the film from cheap-shot mediocrity is its crack cast . 
rife with the rueful , wry humor springing out of yiddish culture and language . 
a time machine , a journey back to your childhood , when cares melted away in the dark theater , and films had the ability to mesmerize , astonish and entertain . 
rubbo's humorously tendentious intervention into the who-wrote-shakespeare controversy . 
cantet beautifully illuminates what it means sometimes to be inside looking out , and at other times outside looking in . 
k-19 : the widowmaker is a great yarn . 
it's as raw and action-packed an experience as a ringside seat at a tough-man contest . 
evokes the frustration , the awkwardness and the euphoria of growing up , without relying on the usual tropes . 
a brilliant gag at the expense of those who paid for it and those who pay to see it . 
visually striking and viscerally repellent . 
overcomes its visual hideousness with a sharp script and strong performances . 
touch ! 
astonishingly skillful and moving . . . it could become a historically significant work as well as a masterfully made one . 
beautifully crafted and cooly unsettling . . . recreates the atmosphere of the crime expertly . 
the year 2002 has conjured up more coming-of-age stories than seem possible , but take care of my cat emerges as the very best of them . 
although it doesn't always hang together -- violence and whimsy don't combine easily -- " cherish " certainly isn't dull . 
the sight of the spaceship on the launching pad is duly impressive in imax dimensions , as are shots of the astronauts floating in their cabins . 
time is a beautiful film to watch , an interesting and at times captivating take on loss and loneliness . 
an intriguing look at the french film industry during the german occupation ; its most delightful moments come when various characters express their quirky inner selves . 
a fine documentary can be distinguished from a mediocre one by the better film's ability to make its subject interesting to those who aren't part of its supposed target audience . judging by those standards , 'scratch' is a pretty decent little documentary . 
fubar is very funny , but not always in a laugh-out-loud way . 
a diverse and astonishingly articulate cast of palestinian and israeli children . 
slight but enjoyable documentary . 
'the film is stark , straightforward and deadly . . . an unnatural calm that's occasionally shaken by . . . blasts of rage , and later , violent jealousy . '
an impressive hybrid . 
call this the full monty on ice , the underdog sports team formula redux . 
unfolds in a low-key , organic way that encourages you to accept it as life and go with its flow . 
a beguiling evocation of the quality that keeps dickens evergreen : the exuberant openness with which he expresses our most basic emotions . 
the heat of the moment prevails . it cooks conduct in a low , smoky and inviting sizzle . 
a riveting story well told . 
denis forges out of the theories of class- based rage and sisterly obsession a razor-sided tuning fork that rings with cultural , sexual and social discord . 
a compelling pre-wwii drama with vivid characters and a warm , moving message . 
the stars may be college kids , but the subject matter is as adult as you can get : the temptations of the flesh are unleashed by a slightly crazed , overtly determined young woman and a one-night swim turns into an ocean of trouble . 
pretty good little movie . 
by turns touching , raucously amusing , uncomfortable , and , yes , even sexy , never again is a welcome and heartwarming addition to the romantic comedy genre . 
worse than 'silence of the lambs' better than 'hannibal'
if you haven't seen the film lately , you may be surprised at the variety of tones in spielberg's work . much of it is funny , but there are also some startling , surrealistic moments . . . 
[the digital effects] reminded me of terry gilliam's rudimentary old monty python cartoons , in which he would cut out figures from drawings and photographs and paste them together . 
an entertaining mix of period drama and flat-out farce that should please history fans . 
canada's arctic light shines bright on this frozen tundra soap opera that breathes extraordinary life into the private existence of the inuit people . 
the fluid motion is astounding on any number of levels -- including the physical demands made on bttner -- and it implies in its wake the intractable , irreversible flow of history . 
alternately hilarious and sad , aggravating and soulful , scathing and joyous . it's a masterpeice . 
the film's messages of tolerance and diversity aren't particularly original , but one can't help but be drawn in by the sympathetic characters . 
though it lacks the utter authority of a genre gem , there's a certain robustness to this engaging mix of love and bloodletting . 
a conventional , but well-crafted film about a historic legal battle in ireland over a man's right to raise his own children . 
yes , it's as good as you remember . in fact , even better . 
hartley adds enough quirky and satirical touches in the screenplay to keep the film entertaining . 
an uncomfortable movie , suffocating and sometimes almost senseless , the grey zone does have a center , though a morbid one . 
this is a harrowing movie about how parents know where all the buttons are , and how to push them . 
a stirring road movie . 
one of the best films i have ever seen , constantly pulling the rug from underneath us , seeing things from new sides , plunging deeper , getting more intense . 
insanely hilarious ! i haven't laughed that hard in years ! 
anyone who's ever suffered under a martinet music instructor has no doubt fantasized about what an unhappy , repressed and twisted personal life their tormentor deserved . these people are really going to love the piano teacher . 
it's a tour de force , written and directed so quietly that it's implosion rather than explosion you fear . 
it may not be history  but then again , what if it is ?  but it makes for one of the most purely enjoyable and satisfying evenings at the movies i've had in a while . 
if " lilo & stitch " isn't the most edgy piece of disney animation to hit the silver screen , then this first film to use a watercolor background since " dumbo " certainly ranks as the most original in years . 
this may be dover kosashvili's feature directing debut , but it looks an awful lot like life -- gritty , awkward and ironic . 
this ready-made midnight movie probably won't stand the cold light of day , but under the right conditions , it's goofy ( if not entirely wholesome ) fun . 
see scratch for the history , see scratch for the music , see scratch for a lesson in scratching , but , most of all , see it for the passion . 
 . . . " bowling for columbine " remains a disquieting and thought-provoking film . . . 
even though it is infused with the sensibility of a video director , it doesn't make for completely empty entertainment
but even with the two-wrongs-make-a-right chemistry between jolie and burns . . . this otherwise appealing picture loses its soul to screenwriting for dummies conformity . 
talk to her is so darned assured , we have absolutely no idea who the main characters are until the film is well under way -- and yet it's hard to stop watching . 
star/producer salma hayek and director julie taymor have infused frida with a visual style unique and inherent to the titular character's paintings and in the process created a masterful work of art of their own . 
a tasty masala . 
a truly wonderful tale combined with stunning animation . 
a low-key labor of love that strikes a very resonant chord . 
an average kid-empowerment fantasy with slightly above-average brains . 
confessions isn't always coherent , but it's sharply comic and surprisingly touching , so hold the gong . 
while guzmn frustratingly refuses to give pinochet's crimes a political context , his distance from the material is mostly admirable . 
 . . . a story , an old and scary one , about the monsters we make , and the vengeance they take . 
a sentimental but entirely irresistible portrait of three aging sisters . 
white oleander may leave you rolling your eyes in the dark , but that doesn't mean you won't like looking at it . 
in painting an unabashedly romantic picture of a nation whose songs spring directly from the lives of the people , the movie exalts the marxian dream of honest working folk , with little to show for their labor , living harmoniously , joined in song . 
the most brilliant work in this genre since the 1984 uncut version of sergio leone's flawed but staggering once upon a time in america . 
it looks closely , insightfully at fragile , complex relationships . 
not a bad choice here , assuming that . . . the air-conditioning in the theater is working properly . 
a fine effort , an interesting topic , some intriguing characters and a sad ending . certainly the big finish wasn't something galinsky and hawley could have planned for . . . but part of being a good documentarian is being there when the rope snaps . 
it must be the end of the world : the best film so far this year is a franchise sequel starring wesley snipes . 
there are moments of hilarity to be had . 
refreshing . 
a hypnotic portrait of this sad , compulsive life . 
[while the last metro] was more melodramatic , confined to a single theater company and its strategies and deceptions , while tavernier is more concerned with the entire period of history . 
one of the best films of the year with its exquisite acting , inventive screenplay , mesmerizing music , and many inimitable scenes of tenderness , loss , discontent , and yearning . 
return to never land is reliable , standard disney animated fare , with enough creative energy and wit to entertain all ages . 
michael moore's latest documentary about america's thirst for violence is his best film yet . . . 
suffice to say that after seeing this movie in imax form , you'll be more acquainted with the tiniest details of tom hanks' face than his wife is . 
like a tarantino movie with heart , alias betty is richly detailed , deftly executed and utterly absorbing . 
marvelously entertaining and deliriously joyous documentary . 
a brisk , reverent , and subtly different sequel . 
a movie i loved on first sight and , even more important , love in remembrance . 
'divertida , enternecedora , universal y profundamente sincera , es una de las mejores comedias romnticas en mucho tiempo . una verdadera delicia . '
deserves a place of honor next to nanook as a landmark in film history . 
murderous maids pulls no punches in its depiction of the lives of the papin sister and the events that led to their notorious rise to infamy . . . 
this is an undeniably intriguing film from an adventurous young talent who finds his inspiration on the fringes of the american underground . 
the sweetest thing , a romantic comedy with outrageous tendencies , may be a mess in a lot of ways . but it does have one saving grace . a lot of its gags and observations reflect a woman's point-of-view . 
this is lightweight filmmaking , to be sure , but it's pleasant enough -- and oozing with attractive men . 
at its most basic , this cartoon adventure is that wind-in-the-hair exhilarating . 
fans of critics' darling band wilco will marvel at the sometimes murky , always brooding look of i am trying to break your heart . 
the film presents visceral and dangerously honest revelations about the men and machines behind the curtains of our planet . 
[gosling's] combination of explosive physical energy and convincing intelligence helps create a complex , unpredictable character . 
confounding because it solemnly advances a daringly preposterous thesis . acting cannot be acted . 
fulford-wierzbicki . . . deftly captures the wise-beyond-her-years teen . 
a wild ride juiced with enough energy and excitement for at least three films . 
it's a cool event for the whole family . maybe not a classic , but a movie the kids will want to see over and over again . 
featherweight romantic comedy has a few nice twists in a standard plot and the charisma of hugh grant and sandra bullock . 
the movie is not as terrible as the synergistic impulse that created it . 
a typically observant , carefully nuanced and intimate french coming-of-age film that is an encouraging debut feature but has a needlessly downbeat ending that is too heavy for all that has preceded it . 
less an examination of neo-nazism than a probe into the nature of faith itself . 
a moving and weighty depiction of one family's attempts to heal after the death of a child . 
i don't think most of the people who loved the 1989 paradiso will prefer this new version . but i do . 
a zinger-filled crowd-pleaser that open-minded elvis fans ( but by no means all ) will have fun with . 
diggs and lathan are among the chief reasons brown sugar is such a sweet and sexy film . 
entirely suspenseful , extremely well-paced and ultimately . . . dare i say , entertaining ! 
the riveting performances by the incredibly flexible cast make love a joy to behold . 
terrific as nadia , a russian mail-order bride who comes to america speaking not a word of english , it's kidman who holds the film together with a supremely kittenish performance that gradually accumulates more layers . 
with an unflappable air of decadent urbanity , everett remains a perfect wildean actor , and a relaxed firth displays impeccable comic skill . 
the re-release of ron howard's apollo 13 in the imax format proves absolutely that really , really , really good things can come in enormous packages . 
very well written and directed with brutal honesty and respect for its audience . 
wonderful fencing scenes and an exciting plot make this an eminently engrossing film . 
it's pretty linear and only makeup-deep , but bogdanovich ties it together with efficiency and an affection for the period . 
a surprisingly charming and even witty match for the best of hollywood's comic-book adaptations . 
this is a superior horror flick . 
adaptation is simply brilliant . 
smart and alert , thirteen conversations about one thing is a small gem . 
the pleasure of read my lips is like seeing a series of perfect black pearls clicking together to form a string . we're drawn in by the dark luster . 
a haunting tale of murder and mayhem . 
i love the opening scenes of a wintry new york city in 1899 . cinematic poetry showcases the city's old-world charm before machines change nearly everything . 
it's hard to imagine anyone managing to steal a movie not only from charismatic rising star jake gyllenhaal but also from accomplished oscar winners susan sarandon , dustin hoffman and holly hunter , yet newcomer ellen pompeo pulls off the feat with aplomb . 
one of the best rock documentaries ever . wilco is a phenomenal band with such an engrossing story that will capture the minds and hearts of many . 
ian holm conquers france as an earthy napoleon
offers big , fat , dumb laughs that may make you hate yourself for giving in . ah , what the hell . 
[sports] admirable energy , full-bodied characterizations and narrative urgency . 
a portrait of an artist . 
directors brett morgen and nanette burstein have put together a bold biographical fantasia . 
the subtitled costume drama is set in a remote african empire before cell phones , guns , and the internal combustion engine , but the politics that thump through it are as timely as tomorrow . 
a tremendous piece of work . 
a delightful , if minor , pastry of a movie . 
while obviously aimed at kids , the country bears . . . should keep parents amused with its low groan-to-guffaw ratio . 
labute masterfully balances both traditional or modern stories together in a manner that one never overwhelms the other . something for everyone . 
irwin is so earnest that it's hard to resist his pleas to spare wildlife and respect their environs . there are far worse messages to teach a young audience , which will probably be perfectly happy with the sloppy slapstick comedy . 
leigh succeeds in delivering a dramatic slap in the face that's simultaneously painful and refreshing . 
not about scares but a mood in which an ominous , pervasive , and unknown threat lurks just below the proceedings and adds an almost constant mindset of suspense . 
'film aficionados cannot help but love cinema paradiso , whether the original version or new director's cut . '
a fascinating glimpse into an insular world that gives the lie to many clichs and showcases a group of dedicated artists . 
it's one thing to read about or rail against the ongoing - and unprecedented - construction project going on over our heads . it's quite another to feel physically caught up in the process . 
contradicts everything we've come to expect from movies nowadays . instead of simply handling conventional material in a conventional way , secretary takes the most unexpected material and handles it in the most unexpected way . 
could i have been more geeked when i heard that apollo 13 was going to be released in imax format ? in a word : no . 
murderous maids has a lot going for it , not least the brilliant performances by testud . . . and parmentier . 
filmmaker stacy peralta has a flashy editing style that doesn't always jell with sean penn's monotone narration , but he respects the material without sentimentalizing it . 
there are a couple of things that elevate " glory " above most of its ilk , most notably the mere presence of duvall . 
it's light on the chills and heavy on the atmospheric weirdness , and there are moments of jaw-droppingly odd behavior -- yet i found it weirdly appealing . 
 ( rises ) above its oh-so-hollywood rejiggering and its conventional direction to give the film a soul and an unabashed sense of good old-fashioned escapism . 
a breezy blend of art , history , esoteric musings and philosophy . 
kids will love its fantasy and adventure , and grownups should appreciate its whimsical humor . 
tsai ming-liang's ghosts are painfully aware of their not-being . 
leaping from one arresting image to another , songs from the second floor has all the enjoyable randomness of a very lively dream and so manages to be compelling , amusing and unsettling at the same time . 
sean penn , you owe nicolas cage an apology . 
the performances are uniformly good . 
she's all-powerful , a voice for a pop-cyber culture that feeds on her bjorkness . 
it's a perfect show of respect to just one of those underrated professionals who deserve but rarely receive it . 
for all its plot twists , and some of them verge on the bizarre as the film winds down , blood work is a strong , character-oriented piece . 
the story line may be 127 years old , but el crimen del padre amaro . . . couldn't be more timely in its despairing vision of corruption within the catholic establishment . 
this in-depth study of important developments of the computer industry should make it required viewing in university computer science departments for years to come . 
it shows us a slice of life that's very different from our own and yet instantly recognizable . 
a wonderfully speculative character study that made up for its rather slow beginning by drawing me into the picture . 
has its share of arresting images . 
leave it to john sayles to take on developers , the chamber of commerce , tourism , historical pageants , and commercialism all in the same movie . . . without neglecting character development for even one minute . 
reign of fire just might go down as one of the all-time great apocalypse movies . 
poignant and funny . 
a smart little indie . 
payne has created a beautiful canvas , and nicholson proves once again that he's the best brush in the business . 
see it . debate it . remember it . 
try as you might to resist , if you've got a place in your heart for smokey robinson , this movie will worm its way there . 
a riveting profile of law enforcement , and a visceral , nasty journey into an urban hades . 
director douglas mcgrath takes on nickleby with all the halfhearted zeal of an 8th grade boy delving into required reading . 
stands as a document of what it felt like to be a new yorker -- or , really , to be a human being -- in the weeks after 9/11 . 
i am not generally a huge fan of cartoons derived from tv shows , but hey arnold ! the movie is clever , offbeat and even gritty enough to overcome my resistance . 
with not a lot of help from the screenplay ( proficient , but singularly cursory ) , [testud] acts with the feral intensity of the young bette davis . 
it's a film that's destined to win a wide summer audience through word-of-mouth reviews and , not far down the line , to find a place among the studio's animated classics . 
slow and ponderous , but rohmer's drama builds to an intense indoor drama about compassion , sacrifice , and christian love in the face of political corruption . 
if you're not totally weirded- out by the notion of cinema as community-therapy spectacle , quitting hits home with disorienting force . 
austin powers for the most part is extremely funny , the first part making up for any flaws that come later . 
while tattoo borrows heavily from both seven and the silence of the lambs , it manages to maintain both a level of sophisticated intrigue and human-scale characters that suck the audience in . 
cho continues her exploration of the outer limits of raunch with considerable brio . 
elvira fans could hardly ask for more . 
a canny , derivative , wildly gruesome portrait of a london sociopath who's the scariest of sadists . 
the movie should be credited with remembering his victims . 
fast-paced and wonderfully edited , the film is extremely thorough . 
a bracing , unblinking work that serves as a painful elegy and sobering cautionary tale . 
hashiguchi uses the situation to evoke a japan bustling atop an undercurrent of loneliness and isolation . 
as if trying to grab a lump of play-doh , the harder that liman tries to squeeze his story , the more details slip out between his fingers . 
my big fat greek wedding is not only the best date movie of the year , it's also a -- dare i say it twice -- delightfully charming -- and totally american , i might add -- slice of comedic bliss . 
few films have captured the chaos of an urban conflagration with such fury , and audience members will leave feeling as shaken as nesbitt's cooper looks when the bullets stop flying . 
another love story in 2002's remarkable procession of sweeping pictures that have reinvigorated the romance genre . 
it's another retelling of alexandre dumas' classic . why ? who knows , but it works under the direction of kevin reynolds . 
[f]rom the performances and the cinematography to the outstanding soundtrack and unconventional narrative , the film is blazingly alive and admirable on many levels . 
shiri is an action film that delivers on the promise of excitement , but it also has a strong dramatic and emotional pull that gradually sneaks up on the audience . 
provides the kind of 'laugh therapy' i need from movie comedies -- offbeat humor , amusing characters , and a happy ending . after seeing 'analyze that , ' i feel better already . 
a penetrating , potent exploration of sanctimony , self-awareness , self-hatred and self-determination . 
this isn't a retooled genre piece , the tale of a guy and his gun , but an amiably idiosyncratic work . 
overall , it's a very entertaining , thought-provoking film with a simple message : god is love . 
it may not be a great piece of filmmaking , but its power comes from its soul's-eye view of how well-meaning patronizing masked a social injustice , at least as represented by this case . 
although mainstream american movies tend to exploit the familiar , every once in a while a film arrives from the margin that gives viewers a chance to learn , to grow , to travel . 
jeong-hyang lee's film is deceptively simple , deeply satisfying . 
the film is a hoot , and is just as good , if not better than much of what's on saturday morning tv especially the pseudo-educational stuff we all can't stand . 
george clooney , in his first directorial effort , presents this utterly ridiculous shaggy dog story as one of the most creative , energetic and original comedies to hit the screen in years . 
even when it drags , we are forced to reflect that its visual imagination is breathtaking
although commentary on nachtwey is provided . . . it's the image that really tells the tale . 
a life-size reenactment of those jack chick cartoon tracts that always ended with some hippie getting tossed into the lake of fire . 
grainy photography mars an otherwise delightful comedy of errors . 
this film is not a love letter for the slain rappers , it's a taunt -a call for justice for two crimes from which many of us have not yet recovered . 
the film is impressive for the sights and sounds of the wondrous beats the world has to offer . 
daily struggles and simple pleasures usurp the preaching message so that , by the time the credits roll across the pat ending , a warm , fuzzy feeling prevails . 
 . . . in no way original , or even all that memorable , but as downtown saturday matinee brain candy , it doesn't disappoint . 
clever and unflinching in its comic barbs , slap her is a small but rewarding comedy that takes aim at contemporary southern adolescence and never lets up . 
cremaster 3 is at once a tough pill to swallow and a minor miracle of self-expression . 
sex is one of those films that aims to confuse . 
compared to his series of spectacular belly flops both on and off the screen , runteldat is something of a triumph . 
[moore's] better at fingering problems than finding solutions . but though he only scratches the surface , at least he provides a strong itch to explore more . 
the powerful success of read my lips with such provocative material shows why , after only three films , director/co-writer jacques audiard , though little known in this country , belongs in the very top rank of french filmmakers . 
in his debut as a director , washington has a sure hand . his work with actors is particularly impressive . 
a generous , inspiring film that unfolds with grace and humor and gradually becomes a testament to faith . 
delivers the sexy razzle-dazzle that everyone , especially movie musical fans , has been hoping for . 
morvern rocks . 
vincent gallo is right at home in this french shocker playing his usual bad boy weirdo role . 
fierce , glaring and unforgettable . 
cletis is playful but highly studied and dependent for its success on a patient viewer . 
like its predecessor , it's no classic , but it provides a reasonably attractive holiday contraption , one that families looking for a clean , kid-friendly outing should investigate . 
campanella gets the tone just right -- funny in the middle of sad in the middle of hopeful . 
either a fascinating study of the relationship between mothers and their children or a disturbing story about sociopaths and their marks . 
 . . . gripping and handsome execution , ( but ) there isn't much about k-19 that's unique or memorable . 
effective in all its aspects , margarita happy hour represents an auspicious feature debut for chaiken . 
the delicious trimmingsarrive early and stay late , filling nearly every minutewith a lighthearted glow , some impudent snickers , and a glorious dose of humankind's liberating ability to triumph over a scrooge or two . 
standing by yourself is haunting . . . [it's] what punk rock music used to be , and what the video medium could use more of : spirit , perception , conviction . 
not the best herzog perhaps , but unmistakably herzog . 
enjoyably fast-moving , hard-hitting documentary . 
rehearsals are frequently more fascinating than the results . last dance , whatever its flaws , fulfills one facet of its mission in making me want to find out whether , in this case , that's true . 
the film's constant mood of melancholy and its unhurried narrative are masterfully controlled . but  in trying to capture the novel's deeper intimate resonances , the film has  ironically - distanced us from the characters . 
this is a stunning film , a one-of-a-kind tour de force . 
[cho's face is] an amazing slapstick instrument , creating a scrapbook of living mug shots . 
it's about as convincing as any other arnie musclefest , but has a little too much resonance with real world events and ultimately comes off as insultingly simplistic . 
while not quite a comedy , the film tackles its relatively serious subject with an open mind and considerable good cheer , and is never less than engaging . 
an extremely funny , ultimately heartbreaking look at life in contemporary china . 
your response to its new sequel , analyze that , may hinge on what you thought of the first film . 
davis is funny , charming and quirky in her feature film acting debut as amy . 
bloody sunday has the grace to call for prevention rather than to place blame , making it one of the best war movies ever made . it's a movie that accomplishes so much that one viewing can't possibly be enough . 
a lively and engaging examination of how similar obsessions can dominate a family . 
in the new release of cinema paradiso , the tale has turned from sweet to bittersweet , and when the tears come during that final , beautiful scene , they finally feel absolutely earned . 
faithful without being forceful , sad without being shrill , " a walk to remember " succeeds through sincerity . 
the film is a masterpiece of nuance and characterization , marred only by an inexplicable , utterly distracting blunder at the very end . 
the film is full of charm . 
the movie is well crafted , and well executed . if you're paying attention , the " big twists " are pretty easy to guess - but that doesn't make the movie any less entertaining . 
one of those unassuming films that sneaks up on you and stays with you long after you have left the theatre . 
 . . . pray doesn't have a passion for the material . he nonetheless appreciates the art and reveals a music scene that transcends culture and race . 
the one-liners are snappy , the situations volatile and the comic opportunities richly rewarded . 
it's anchored by splendid performances from an honored screen veteran and a sparkling newcomer who instantly transform themselves into a believable mother/daughter pair . 
intelligent and moving . 
fathers and sons , and the uneasy bonds between them , rarely have received such a sophisticated and unsentimental treatment on the big screen as they do in this marvelous film . 
this sci-fi techno-sex thriller starts out bizarre and just keeps getting weirder . 
last orders nurtures the multi-layers of its characters , allowing us to remember that life's ultimately a gamble and last orders are to be embraced . it's affecting , amusing , sad and reflective . 
a slight but sweet film . 
el peso de un lquido incoloro , el peso del lquido vital , del amor como elemento de vida , y de muerte . . . 
writer/director walter hill is in his hypermasculine element here , once again able to inject some real vitality and even art into a pulpy concept that , in many other hands would be completely forgettable . 
it is a happy , heady jumble of thought and storytelling , an insane comic undertaking that ultimately coheres into a sane and breathtakingly creative film . 
this new time machine is hardly perfect yet it proves surprisingly serviceable . even at its worst , it's not half-bad . 
almost everyone growing up believes their family must look like " the addams family " to everyone looking in . . . " my big fat greek wedding " comes from the heart . . . 
once folks started hanging out at the barbershop , they never wanted to leave . chances are you won't , either . 
george lucas returns as a visionary with a tale full of nuance and character dimension . 
can be viewed as pure composition and form -- film as music
an extraordinary dramatic experience . 
every individual will see the movie through the prism of his or her own beliefs and prejudices , but the one thing most will take away is the sense that peace is possible . that , in itself , is extraordinary . 
if you can tolerate the redneck-versus-blueblood cliches that the film trades in , sweet home alabama is diverting in the manner of jeff foxworthy's stand-up act . 
it's a treat watching shaw , a british stage icon , melting under the heat of phocion's attentions . 
all in all , an interesting look at the life of the campaign-trail press , especially ones that don't really care for the candidate they're forced to follow . 
narc is a no-bull throwback to 1970s action films . it zips along with b-movie verve while adding the rich details and go-for-broke acting that heralds something special . 
me without you has a bracing truth that's refreshing after the phoniness of female-bonding pictures like divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood . 
it's a strange film , one that was hard for me to warm up to . 
goes a long way on hedonistic gusto . 
the result puts a human face on derrida , and makes one of the great minds of our times interesting and accessible to people who normally couldn't care less . 
the scorpion king is more fun than conan the barbarian . 
if there's one big point to promises , it's that nothing can change while physical and psychological barriers keep the sides from speaking even one word to each other . 
unexpected moments of authentically impulsive humor are the hallmark of this bittersweet , uncommonly sincere movie that portrays the frank humanity ofemotional recovery . 
jacquot has filmed the opera exactly as the libretto directs , ideally capturing the opera's drama and lyricism . 
this is a sincerely crafted picture that deserves to emerge from the traffic jam of holiday movies . 
i liked it because it was so endlessly , grotesquely , inventive . 
audiard successfully maintains suspense on different levels throughout a film that is both gripping and compelling . 
credit director ramsay for taking the sometimes improbable story and making it feel realistic . 
this is dicaprio's best performance in anything ever , and easily the most watchable film of the year . 
witherspoon puts to rest her valley-girl image , but it's dench who really steals the show . 
even when there are lulls , the emotions seem authentic , and the picture is so lovely toward the end . . . you almost don't notice the 129-minute running time . 
while dutifully pulling on heartstrings , directors dean deblois and chris sanders valiantly keep punching up the mix . 
ambitious , unsettling psychodrama that takes full , chilling advantage of its rough-around-the-edges , low-budget constraints . 
eric byler's nuanced pic avoids easy sentiments and explanations . . . 
manages to be wholesome and subversive at the same time . 
when it's not wallowing in hormonal melodrama , " real women have curves " is a sweet , honest , and enjoyable comedy-drama about a young woman who wants many things in life , but fears she'll become her mother before she gets to fulfill her dreams . 
the film runs on a little longer than it needs to -- muccino either doesn't notice when his story ends or just can't tear himself away from the characters -- but it's smooth and professional . 
blithely anachronistic and slyly achronological . 
this starts off with a 1950's doris day feel and it gets very ugly , very fast . the first five minutes will have you talking 'til the end of the year ! 
triumph of love is a very silly movie , but the silliness has a pedigree . 
discursive but oddly riveting documentary . 
the movie has no respect for laws , political correctness or common decency , but it displays something more important : respect for its flawed , crazy people . 
on its own , big trouble could be considered a funny little film . 
an undeniably gorgeous , terminally smitten document of a troubadour , his acolytes , and the triumph of his band . 
this cinema verite speculation on the assassination of john f . kennedy may have been inspired by blair witch , but it takes its techniques into such fresh territory that the film never feels derivative . 
a beautifully observed character piece . 
a coming-of-age movie that hollywood wouldn't have the guts to make . 
it is quite a vision . 
there are laughs aplenty , and , as a bonus , viewers don't have to worry about being subjected to farts , urine , feces , semen , or any of the other foul substances that have overrun modern-day comedies . 
a bittersweet drama about the limbo of grief and how truth-telling can open the door to liberation . 
a strong and confident work which works so well for the first 89 minutes , but ends so horrendously confusing in the final two
salma goes native and she's never been better in this colorful bio-pic of a mexican icon . 
filled with alexandre desplat's haunting and sublime music , the movie completely transfixes the audience . 
as chilling and fascinating as philippe mora's modern hitler-study , snide and prejudice . 
an hour and a half of joyful solo performance . 
strange and beautiful film . 
no worse a film than breaking out , and breaking out was utterly charming . 
parker cannot sustain the buoyant energy level of the film's city beginnings into its country conclusion
' . . . despite lagging near the finish line , the movie runs a good race , one that will have you at the edge of your seat for long stretches . '
 . . . a guiltless film for nice evening out . 
deflated ending aside , there's much to recommend the film . 
it's a treat  a delightful , witty , improbable romantic comedy with a zippy jazzy score grant and bullock make it look as though they are having so much fun . 
performances all around are tops , with the two leads delivering oscar-caliber performances . 
everything about the quiet american is good , except its timing . 
a savage john waters-like humor that dances on the edge of tastelessness without ever quite falling over . 
at once a testament to the divine calling of education and a demonstration of the painstaking process of imparting knowledge . 
may seriously impair your ability to ever again maintain a straight face while speaking to a highway patrolman . 
it's an interesting effort ( particularly for jfk conspiracy nuts ) , and barry's cold-fish act makes the experience worthwhile . 
they're just a couple of cops in copmovieland , these two , but in narc , they find new routes through a familiar neighborhood . 
brings awareness to an issue often overlooked -- women's depression . 
it's a shame the marvelous first 101 minutes have to be combined with the misconceived final 5 . 
it has a caffeinated , sloppy brilliance , sparkling with ideas you wish had been developed with more care , but animated by an energy that puts the dutiful efforts of more disciplined grade-grubbers to shame . 
you can almost see mendes and company getting together before a single frame had been shot and collectively vowing , 'this is going to be something really good . ' and it is . 
foster and whitaker are especially fine . she is a lioness , protecting her cub , and he a reluctant villain , incapable of controlling his crew . 
undoubtedly the scariest movie ever made about tattoos . 
a movie that will wear you out and make you misty even when you don't want to be . 
not only better than its predecessor , it may rate as the most magical and most fun family fare of this or any recent holiday season . 
though the story . . . is hackneyed , the characters have a freshness and modesty that transcends their predicament . 
although frailty fits into a classic genre , in its script and execution it is a remarkably original work . 
if this movie leaves you cool , it also leaves you intriguingly contemplative . 
the climactic events are so well realized that you may forget all about the original conflict , just like the movie does
a rude black comedy about the catalytic effect a holy fool has upon those around him in the cutthroat world of children's television . 
all comedy is subversive , but this unrelenting bleak insistence on opting out of any opportunity for finding meaning in relationships or work just becomes sad . 
if a horror movie's primary goal is to frighten and disturb , then they works spectacularly well . . . a shiver-inducing , nerve-rattling ride . 
a playful iranian parable about openness , particularly the need for people of diverse political perspectives to get along despite their ideological differences . 
brilliantly written and well-acted , yellow asphalt is an uncompromising film . 
that 'alabama' manages to be pleasant in spite of its predictability and occasional slowness is due primarily to the perkiness of witherspoon ( who is always a joy to watch , even when her material is not first-rate ) . . . 
personal velocity has a no-frills docu-dogma plainness , yet miller lingers on invisible , nearly psychic nuances , leaping into digressions of memory and desire . she boxes these women's souls right open for us . 
a fascinating literary mystery story with multiple strands about the controversy of who really wrote shakespeare's plays . 
throughout , mr . audiard's direction is fluid and quick . 
a dashing and absorbing outing with one of france's most inventive directors . 
it's a fine , old-fashioned-movie movie , which is to say it's unburdened by pretensions to great artistic significance . 
 . . . flat-out amusing , sometimes endearing and often fabulous , with a solid cast , noteworthy characters , delicious dialogue and a wide supply of effective sight gags . 
the trials of henry kissinger is a remarkable piece of filmmaking  because you get it . 
nachtwey clears the cynicism right out of you . he makes you realize that deep inside righteousness can be found a tough beauty . 
what it lacks in substance it makes up for in heart . 
robert harmon's less-is-more approach delivers real bump-in -the-night chills -- his greatest triumph is keeping the creepy crawlies hidden in the film's thick shadows . 
genuinely unnerving . 
american and european cinema has amassed a vast holocaust literature , but it is impossible to think of any film more challenging or depressing than the grey zone . 
a compelling film . 
with its hint of an awkward hitchcockian theme in tact , harmon's daunting narrative promotes a reasonable landscape of conflict and pathos to support the scattershot terrorizing tone
in auteil's less dramatic but equally incisive performance , he's a charismatic charmer likely to seduce and conquer . 
the heart of the film is a touching reflection on aging , suffering and the prospect of death . 
will you go ape over this movie ? well , it probably won't have you swinging from the trees hooting it's praises , but it's definitely worth taking a look . 
its director's most substantial feature for some time . 
fontaine's direction , especially her agreeably startling use of close-ups and her grace with a moving camera , creates sheerly cinematic appeal . 
the son of the bride's humour is born out of an engaging storyline , which also isn't embarrassed to make you reach for the tissues . this movie is to be cherished . 
 . . . a visually seductive , unrepentantly trashy take on rice's second installment of her vampire chronicles . 
the story's scope and pageantry are mesmerizing , and mr . day-lewis roars with leonine power . 
p . t . anderson understands the grandness of romance and how love is the great equalizer that can calm us of our daily ills and bring out joys in our lives that we never knew were possible . 
twenty years later , e . t . is still a cinematic touchstone . 
this fascinating experiment plays as more of a poetic than a strict reality , creating an intriguing species of artifice that gives the lady and the duke something of a theatrical air . 
it's virtually impossible to like any of these despicable characters . 
this is mostly well-constructed fluff , which is all it seems intended to be . 
even through its flaws , revolution #9 proves to be a compelling , interestingly told film . 
the best way to describe it is as a cross between paul thomas anderson's magnolia and david lynch's mulholland dr . 
schepisi , aided by a cast that seems to include every top-notch british actor who did not appear in gosford park ( as well as one , ms . mirren , who did ) , has succeeded beyond all expectation . 
lejos del paraso es al mismo tiempo una fiesta para los ojos y odos y un movilizador cuadro de personajes enfrentados a sus propios deseos , miedos y prejuicios . 
watching this film , one is left with the inescapable conclusion that hitchens' obsession with kissinger is , at bottom , a sophisticated flower child's desire to purge the world of the tooth and claw of human power . 
there is no denying the power of polanski's film . . . 
the movie is amateurish , but it's a minor treat . 
this charming but slight tale has warmth , wit and interesting characters compassionately portrayed . 
el ttulo no enga?a : la pelcula narra una historia donde una mujer enfrentar cierta realidad , y donde el sexo es . . . 
offers a persuasive look at a defeated but defiant nation in flux . 
'interesante y disfrutable trabajo gracias a que prescinde del clsico elemento estadounidense patriotero y manipulador . '
a return to pure disney magic and is enjoyable family fare . 
takes a fresh and absorbing look at a figure whose legacy had begun to bronze . 
a triumph of pure craft and passionate heart . 
gosling creates a staggeringly compelling character , a young man whose sharp intellect is at the very root of his contradictory , self-hating , self-destructive ways . 
witty and often surprising , a dark little morality tale disguised as a romantic comedy . 
even as it pays earnest homage to turntablists and beat jugglers , old schoolers and current innovators , scratch is great fun , full of the kind of energy it's documenting . 
got a david lynch jones ? then you'd do well to check this one out because it's straight up twin peaks action . . . 
astonishing . . . [frames] profound ethical and philosophical questions in the form of dazzling pop entertainment . 
take care is nicely performed by a quintet of actresses , but nonetheless it drags during its 112-minute length . 
it's hard to fairly judge a film like ringu when you've seen the remake first . many of the effective horror elements are dampened through familiarity , [yet] are worthwhile . 
one of the very best movies ever made about the life of moviemaking . 
rarely does such high-profile talent serve such literate material . 
an elegant and sly deadpan comedy . 
the way the roundelay of partners functions , and the interplay within partnerships and among partnerships and the general air of gator-bashing are consistently delightful . 
land , people and narrative flow together in a stark portrait of motherhood deferred and desire explored . 
'blue crush' swims away with the sleeper movie of the summer award . 
you're not merely watching history , you're engulfed by it . 
a chick flick for guys . 
it's mildly entertaining , especially if you find comfort in familiarity . but it's hardly a necessary enterprise . 
the quiet american isn't a bad film , it's just one that could easily wait for your pay per view dollar . 
as home movie gone haywire , it's pretty enjoyable , but as sexual manifesto , i'd rather listen to old tori amos records . 
in its treatment of the dehumanizing and ego-destroying process of unemployment , time out offers an exploration that is more accurate than anything i have seen in an american film . 
like an episode of mtv's undressed , with 20 times the creativity but without any more substance . . . indulgently entertaining but could have and should have been deeper . 
deliciously slow . 
a sensitive , cultivated treatment of greene's work as well as a remarkably faithful one . 
it's not just a feel-good movie , it's a feel movie . you feel good , you feel sad , you feel pissed off , but in the end , you feel alive - which is what they did . 
it's a piece of handiwork that shows its indie tatters and self-conscious seams in places , but has some quietly moving moments and an intelligent subtlety . 
what makes barbershop so likable , with all its flaws , is that it has none of the pushiness and decibel volume of most contemporary comedies . 
watching these two actors play against each other so intensely , but with restraint , is a treat . 
an example of quiet , confident craftsmanship that tells a sweet , charming tale of intergalactic friendship . 
a meditation on faith and madness , frailty is blood-curdling stuff . 
the production design , score and choreography are simply intoxicating . 
a comedy that is warm , inviting , and surprising . 
so vivid a portrait of a woman consumed by lust and love and crushed by betrayal that it conjures up the intoxicating fumes and emotional ghosts of a freshly painted rembrandt . 
suspend your disbelief here and now , or you'll be shaking your head all the way to the credits . 
trades run-of-the-mill revulsion for extreme unease . 
 . . . one of the more influential works of the 'korean new wave' . 
implicitly acknowledges and celebrates the glorious chicanery and self-delusion of this most american of businesses , and for that reason it may be the most oddly honest hollywood document of all . 
a beautifully tooled action thriller about love and terrorism in korea . 
director-writer bille august . . . depicts this relationship with economical grace , letting his superb actors convey martin's deterioration and barbara's sadness -- and , occasionally , anger . 
victor rosa is leguizamo's best movie work so far , a subtle and richly internalized performance . 
birthday girl doesn't try to surprise us with plot twists , but rather seems to enjoy its own transparency . 
smart , funny and just honest enough to provide the pleasures of a slightly naughty , just-above-average off- broadway play . 
topics that could make a sailor blush - but lots of laughs . 
michael moore has perfected the art of highly entertaining , self-aggrandizing , politically motivated documentary-making , and he's got as potent a topic as ever here . 
a fine production with splendid singing by angela gheorghiu , ruggero raimondi , and roberto alagna . 
about a boy vividly recalls the cary grant of room for one more , houseboat and father goose in its affectionate depiction of the gentle war between a reluctant , irresponsible man and the kid who latches onto him . 
none of this is meaningful or memorable , but frosting isn't , either , and you wouldn't turn down a big bowl of that , would you ? 
the film is a fierce dance of destruction . its flame-like , roiling black-and-white inspires trembling and gratitude . 
a riveting documentary . 
may lack the pungent bite of its title , but it's an enjoyable trifle nonetheless . 
 . . . manages to fall closer in quality to silence than to the abysmal hannibal . 
you may think you have figured out the con and the players in this debut film by argentine director fabian bielinsky , but while you were thinking someone made off with your wallet . 
diane lane works nothing short of a minor miracle in unfaithful . 
takashi miike keeps pushing the envelope : ichi the killer
a fantastic premise anchors this movie , but what it needs is either a more rigid , blair witch-style commitment to its mockumentary format , or a more straightforward , dramatic treatment , with all the grandiosity that that implies . 
exhilarating but blatantly biased . 
much of what we see is horrible but it's also undeniably exceedingly clever . 
it understands , in a way that speaks forcefully enough about the mechanisms of poverty to transcend the rather simplistic filmmaking . 
ramsay succeeds primarily with her typical blend of unsettling atmospherics , delivering a series of abrasive , stylized sequences that burn themselves upon the viewer's memory . 
 . . . a thoughtful what-if for the heart as well as the mind . 
like its bizarre heroine , it irrigates our souls . 
hawn and sarandon form an acting bond that makes the banger sisters a fascinating character study with laughs to spare . 
it's a fun adventure movie for kids ( of all ages ) that like adventure . 
a very capable nailbiter . 
because the genre is well established , what makes the movie fresh is smart writing , skewed characters , and the title performance by kieran culkin . 
 " white oleander , " the movie , is akin to a reader's digest condensed version of the source material . 
it's like going to a house party and watching the host defend himself against a frothing ex-girlfriend . you don't want to call the cops . you want to call domino's . 
what's most refreshing about real women have curves is its unforced comedy-drama and its relaxed , natural-seeming actors . 
the low-key direction is pleasingly emphatic in this properly intense , claustrophobic tale of obsessive love . 
secretary is just too original to be ignored . 
that rare film whose real-life basis is , in fact , so interesting that no embellishment is needed . 
smart and fun , but far more witty than it is wise . 
this isn't a stand up and cheer flick ; it's a sit down and ponder affair . and thanks to kline's superbly nuanced performance , that pondering is highly pleasurable . 
originality ain't on the menu , but there's never a dull moment in the giant spider invasion comic chiller . 
walter hill's undisputed is like a 1940s warner bros . b picture , and i mean that as a compliment . 
this one is not nearly as dreadful as expected . in fact , it's quite fun in places . 
with elements cribbed from lang's metropolis , welles' kane , and eisenstein's potemkin , the true wonder of rintar?'s metropolis is the number of lasting images all its own . 
a biopic about crane's life in the classic tradition but evolves into what has become of us all in the era of video . 
the best of the pierce brosnan james bond films to date . 
thanks to a small star with big heart , this family film sequel is plenty of fun for all . 
while the now 72-year-old robert evans been slowed down by a stroke , he has at least one more story to tell : his own . 
it's about individual moments of mood , and an aimlessness that's actually sort of amazing . 
the people in jessica are so recognizable and true that , as in real life , we're never sure how things will work out . 
a tone poem of transgression . 
creeps you out in high style , even if nakata did it better . 
rubbo runs through a remarkable amount of material in the film's short 90 minutes . 
visually engrossing , seldom hammy , honorably mexican and burns its kahlories with conviction . 
this is christmas future for a lot of baby boomers . 
despite a quieter middle section , involving aragorn's dreams of arwen , this is even better than the fellowship . there are scenes of cinematic perfection that steal your heart away . 
spider-man is in the same category as x-men - occasionally brilliant but mostly average , showing signs of potential for the sequels , but not giving us much this time around . 
the obnoxious title character provides the drama that gives added clout to this doc . 
an enjoyable experience . 
anyone who welcomes a dash of the avant-garde fused with their humor should take pleasure in this crazed , joyous romp of a film . 
the fun of the movie is the chance it affords to watch jackson , who also served as executive producer , take his smooth , shrewd , powerful act abroad . 
'si bien no logra desarrollarse como un gran drama , tampoco es tan superficial como muchas cintas que pecan de pretenciosas y que resultan totalmente banales . '
saddled with an unwieldy cast of characters and angles , but the payoff is powerful and revelatory . 
it's something of the ultimate scorsese film , with all the stomach-turning violence , colorful new york gang lore and other hallmarks of his personal cinema painted on their largest-ever historical canvas . 
mr . caine and mr . fraser are the whole show here , with their memorable and resourceful performances . 
a frustrating yet deeply watchable melodrama that makes you think it's a tougher picture than it is . 
a giddy and provocative sexual romp that has something to say . 
[russell] makes good b movies ( the mask , the blob ) , and the scorpion king more than ably meets those standards . 
otto-sallies has a real filmmaker's eye . 
this is a smart movie that knows its classical music , knows its freud and knows its sade . 
the film has an infectious enthusiasm and we're touched by the film's conviction that all life centered on that place , that time and that sport . 
beautifully reclaiming the story of carmen and recreating it an in an african idiom . 
the camera soars above the globe in dazzling panoramic shots that make the most of the large-screen format , before swooping down on a string of exotic locales , scooping the whole world up in a joyous communal festival of rhythm . 
a flawed but engrossing thriller . 
demonstrates the unusual power of thoughtful , subjective filmmaking . 
expect no major discoveries , nor any stylish sizzle , but the film sits with square conviction and touching good sense on the experience of its women . 
the success of undercover brother is found in its ability to spoof both black and white stereotypes equally . 
this is the kind of subject matter that could so easily have been fumbled by a lesser filmmaker , but ayres makes the right choices at every turn . 
cox creates a fluid and mesmerizing sequence of images to match the words of nijinsky's diaries . 
what bloody sunday lacks in clarity , it makes up for with a great , fiery passion . 
its adult themes of familial separation and societal betrayal are head and shoulders above much of the director's previous popcorn work . 
director nancy savoca's no-frills record of a show forged in still-raw emotions captures the unsettled tenor of that post 9-11 period far better than a more measured or polished production ever could . 
the film grows on you . and how . 
one thing you have to give them credit for : the message of the movie is consistent with the messages espoused in the company's previous video work . 
halloween : resurrection isn't exactly quality cinema , but it isn't nearly as terrible as it cold have been . 
as banal as the telling may be -- and at times , all my loved ones more than flirts with kitsch -- the tale commands attention . 
romantic comedy and dogme 95 filmmaking may seem odd bedfellows , but they turn out to be delightfully compatible here . 
the most wondrous love story in years , it is a great film . 
some movies suck you in despite their flaws , and heaven is one such beast . 
my wife is an actress works as well as it does because [the leads] are such a companionable couple . 
with spy kids 2 : the island of lost dreams , however , robert rodriguez adorns his family-film plot with an elegance and maturity that even most contemporary adult movies are lacking . 
based on dave barry's popular book of the same name , the movie benefits from having a real writer plot out all of the characters' moves and overlapping story . 
bouquet gives a performance that is masterly . 
a poignant comedy that offers food for thought . 
 . . . a series of tales told with the intricate preciseness of the best short story writing . 
if you're content with a clever pseudo-bio that manages to have a good time as it doles out pieces of the famous director's life , eisenstein delivers . 
this filmed tosca -- not the first , by the way -- is a pretty good job , if it's filmed tosca that you want . i'll stay with the stage versions , however , which bite cleaner , and deeper . 
while the path may be familiar , first-time director denzel washington and a top-notch cast manage to keep things interesting . 
an engaging criminal romp that will have viewers guessing just who's being conned right up to the finale . 
the picture runs a mere 84 minutes , but it's no glance . it's a head-turner -- thoughtfully written , beautifully read and , finally , deeply humanizing . 
it asks nothing of the audience other than to sit back and enjoy a couple of great actors hamming it up . 
it is as uncompromising as it is nonjudgmental , and makes clear that a prostitute can be as lonely and needy as any of the clients . 
'barbershop " is a good-hearted ensemble comedy with a variety of quirky characters and an engaging story . 
a good thriller . 
tully is in many ways the perfect festival film : a calm , self-assured portrait of small town regret , love , duty and friendship that appeals to the storytelling instincts of a slightly more literate filmgoing audience . 
i like this movie a lot . i like that smith , he's not making fun of these people , he's not laughing at them . 
a glorious mess . 
 . . . the implication is kissinger may have decided that  when it comes to truncheoning  it's better to give than to receive . 
'what's the russian word for wow ! ? '
kiarostami has crafted a deceptively casual ode to children and managed to convey a tiny sense of hope . 
i had more fun watching spy than i had with most of the big summer movies . 
what lee does so marvelously compelling is present brown as a catalyst for the struggle of black manhood in restrictive and chaotic america . . . sketchy but nevertheless gripping portrait of jim brown , a celebrated wonder in the spotlight
murder by numbers' isn't a great movie , but it's a perfectly acceptable widget . 
for those of an indulgent , slightly sunbaked and summery mind , sex and lucia may well prove diverting enough . 
what [denis] accomplishes in his chilling , unnerving film is a double portrait of two young women whose lives were as claustrophic , suffocating and chilly as the attics to which they were inevitably consigned . 
a well-done film of a self-reflexive , philosophical nature . 
texan director george ratliff had unlimited access to families and church meetings , and he delivers fascinating psychological fare . 
the rich performances by friel -- and especially williams , an american actress who becomes fully english -- round out the square edges . 
the new insomnia is a surprisingly faithful remake of its chilly predecessor , and when it does elect to head off in its own direction , it employs changes that fit it well rather than ones that were imposed for the sake of commercial sensibilities . 
a film in a class with spike lee's masterful do the right thing . 
jagger , stoppard and director michael apted . . . deliver a riveting and surprisingly romantic ride . 
greengrass ( working from don mullan's script ) forgoes the larger socio-political picture of the situation in northern ireland in favour of an approach that throws one in the pulsating thick of a truly frightening situation . 
a thought-provoking and often-funny drama about isolation . 
whatever one makes of its political edge , this is beautiful filmmaking from one of french cinema's master craftsmen . 
mama africa pretty much delivers on that promise . it does give you a peek . the main problem being that it's only a peek . 
roman polanski's autobiographical gesture at redemption is better than 'shindler's list' - it is more than merely a holocaust movie . 
a perfectly respectable , perfectly inoffensive , easily forgettable film . 
romanek's themes are every bit as distinctive as his visuals . beyond the cleverness , the weirdness and the pristine camerawork , one hour photo is a sobering meditation on why we take pictures . 
seeing seinfeld at home as he watches his own appearance on letterman with a clinical eye reminds you that the key to stand-up is to always make it look easy , even though the reality is anything but . 
speaks eloquently about the symbiotic relationship between art and life . 
the work of an artist tormented by his heritage , using his storytelling ability to honor the many faceless victims . 
the audacity to view one of shakespeare's better known tragedies as a dark comedy is , by itself , deserving of discussion . 
this is an exercise in chilling style , and twohy films the sub , inside and out , with an eye on preserving a sense of mystery . 
an uncomfortable experience , but one as brave and challenging as you could possibly expect these days from american cinema . 
hailed as a clever exercise in neo-hitchcockianism , this clever and very satisfying picture is more accurately chabrolian . 
funny and also heartwarming without stooping to gooeyness . 
at the film's centre is a precisely layered performance by an actor in his mid-seventies , michel piccoli . 
the viewer takes great pleasure in watching the resourceful molly stay a step ahead of her pursuers . 
with amazing finesse , the film shadows heidi's trip back to vietnam and the city where her mother , mai thi kim , still lives . 
director charles stone iii applies more detail to the film's music than to the story line ; what's best about drumline is its energy . 
a heroic tale of persistence that is sure to win viewers' hearts . 
it's all a rather shapeless good time . . . 
has far more energy , wit and warmth than should be expected from any movie with a " 2 " at the end of its title . 
a little better than sorcerer's stone . 
a chilling movie without oppressive gore . 
a uniquely sensual metaphorical dramatization of sexual obsession that spends a bit too much time on its fairly ludicrous plot . 
if you like peace , you'll like promises . 
be prepared to cling to the edge of your seat , tense with suspense . the ring never lets you off the hook . 
thumbs up to paxton for not falling into the hollywood trap and making a vanity project with nothing new to offer . 
at once disarmingly straightforward and strikingly devious . 
if you like quirky , odd movies and/or the ironic , here's a fun one . 
sensitive ensemble performances and good period reconstruction add up to a moving tragedy with some buoyant human moments . 
it's not the least of afghan tragedies that this noble warlord would be consigned to the dustbin of history . 
it's a lovely , sad dance highlighted by kwan's unique directing style . 
the script by david koepp is perfectly serviceable and because he gives the story some soul . . . he elevates the experience to a more mythic level . 
this is a visually stunning rumination on love , memory , history and the war between art and commerce . 
short-story quaint , touchingly mending a child's pain for his dead mother via communication with an old woman straight out of eudora welty . 
it's always fascinating to watch marker the essayist at work . 
a quiet family drama with a little bit of romance and a dose of darkness . 
the tasteful little revision works wonders , enhancing the cultural and economic subtext , bringing richer meaning to the story's morals . 
kosminsky . . . puts enough salt into the wounds of the tortured and self-conscious material to make it sting . 
one of the greatest films i've ever seen . 
its gentle , touching story creeps into your heart . 
about as big a crowdpleaser as they possibly come . 
bound to appeal to women looking for a howlingly trashy time . 
even these tales of just seven children seem at times too many , although in reality they are not enough . every child's story is what matters . this film can only point the way -- but thank goodness for this signpost . 
a poignant and gently humorous parable that loves its characters and communicates something rather beautiful about human nature . 
real women have curves doesn't offer any easy answers . 
vampire epic succeeds as spooky action-packed trash of the highest order . 
one of the funniest motion pictures of the year , but . . . also one of the most curiously depressing . 
while somewhat less than it might have been , the film is a good one , and you've got to hand it to director george clooney for biting off such a big job the first time out . 
like the chilled breath of oral storytelling frozen onto film . 
a charmer from belgium . 
a wild , endearing , masterful documentary . 
jackie chan movies are a guilty pleasure - he's easy to like and always leaves us laughing . 
brown sugar signals director rick famuyiwa's emergence as an articulate , grown-up voice in african-american cinema . 
with exquisite craftsmanship . . . olivier assayas has fashioned an absorbing look at provincial bourgeois french society . 
it's rare for any movie to be as subtle and touching as the son's room . 
it has a way of seeping into your consciousness , with lingering questions about what the film is really getting at . 
maelstrom is a deliberately unsteady mixture of stylistic elements . 
[leigh] has a true talent for drawing wrenching performances from his actors ( improvised over many months ) and for conveying the way tiny acts of kindness make ordinary life survivable . 
[d]espite its familiar subject matter , ice age is consistently amusing and engrossing . . . 
the ingenious construction ( adapted by david hare from michael cunningham's novel ) constantly flows forwards and back , weaving themes among three strands which allow us to view events as if through a prism
assured , glossy and shot through with brittle desperation . 
the bottom line is the piece works brilliantly . 
it was only a matter of time before some savvy producer saw the potential success inherent in the mixture of bullock bubble and hugh goo . 
it is scott's convincing portrayal of roger the sad cad that really gives the film its oomph . 
while this movie , by necessity , lacks fellowship's heart , two towers outdoes its spectacle . 
meyjes . . . has done his homework and soaked up some jazzy new revisionist theories about the origins of nazi politics and aesthetics . 
para hitler , o mundo era sua tela ; e o horror , seu pincel . e max retrata este fato com elegante abandono , numa triste constata??o da realidade histrica . 
aside from rohmer's bold choices regarding point of view , the lady and the duke represents the filmmaker's lifelong concern with formalist experimentation in cinematic art . 
what 'dumb and dumber' would have been without the vulgarity and with an intelligent , life-affirming script . 
 . . . a vivid , thoughtful , unapologetically raw coming-of-age tale full of sex , drugs and rock 'n' roll . 
you wouldn't want to live waydowntown , but it is a hilarious place to visit . 
films are made of little moments . changing lanes tries for more . it doesn't reach them , but the effort is gratefully received . 
when the movie mixes the cornpone and the cosa nostra , it finds a nice rhythm . 
the story is a rather simplistic one : grief drives her , love drives him , and a second chance to find love in the most unlikely place - it struck a chord in me . 
terrific casting and solid execution give all three stories life . 
a hard look at one man's occupational angst and its subsequent reinvention , a terrifying study of bourgeois desperation worthy of claude chabrol . 
neatly constructed thriller . 
[ramsay] visually transforms the dreary expanse of dead-end distaste the characters inhabit into a poem of art , music and metaphor . 
frequent flurries of creative belly laughs and genuinely enthusiastic performances . . . keep the movie slaloming through its hackneyed elements with enjoyable ease . 
at its best , this is grand-scale moviemaking for a larger-than-life figure , an artist who has been awarded mythic status in contemporary culture . 
'possession , ' based on the book by a . s . byatt , demands that labute deal with the subject of love head-on ; trading in his cynicism for reverence and a little wit
the plot of the comeback curlers isn't very interesting actually , but what i like about men with brooms and what is kind of special is how the film knows what's unique and quirky about canadians . 
10 minutes into the film you'll be white-knuckled and unable to look away . 
it's a beautiful film , full of elaborate and twisted characters - and it's also pretty funny . 
could this be the first major studio production shot on video tape instead of film ? 
not since ghostbusters has a film used manhattan's architecture in such a gloriously goofy way . 
as tricky and satisfying as any of david mamet's airless cinematic shell games . 
the universal theme of becoming a better person through love has never been filmed more irresistibly than in 'baran . '
cube's charisma and chemistry compensate for corniness and cliche . 
with lesser talents , high crimes would be entertaining , but forgettable . with freeman and judd , i'll at least remember their characters . 
as a director , paxton is surprisingly brilliant , deftly sewing together what could have been a confusing and horrifying vision into an intense and engrossing head-trip . 
the film is filled with humorous observations about the general absurdity of modern life as seen through the eyes outsiders , but deftly manages to avoid many of the condescending stereotypes that so often plague films dealing with the mentally ill . 
daughter from danang sticks with its subjects a little longer and tells a deeper story
a coming-of-age film that avoids the cartoonish clichs and sneering humor of the genre as it provides a fresh view of an old type -- the uncertain girl on the brink of womanhood . 
the faithful will enjoy this sometimes wry adaptation of v . s . naipaul's novel , but newcomers may find themselves stifling a yawn or two during the first hour . 
a distinguished and thoughtful film , marked by acute writing and a host of splendid performances . 
barry convinces us he's a dangerous , secretly unhinged guy who could easily have killed a president because it made him feel powerful . 
takes you by the face , strokes your cheeks and coos beseechingly at you : slow down , shake off your tensions and take this picture at its own breezy , distracted rhythms . 
i don't feel the least bit ashamed in admitting that my enjoyment came at the expense of seeing justice served , even if it's a dish that's best served cold . 
it's a smart , solid , kinetically-charged spy flick worthy of a couple hours of summertime and a bucket of popcorn . nothing overly original , mind you , but solidly entertaining . 
changing lanes is an anomaly for a hollywood movie ; it's a well-written and occasionally challenging social drama that actually has something interesting to say . 
borrows a bit from the classics " wait until dark " and " extremities " . . . but in terms of its style , the movie is in a class by itself . 
because eight legged freaks is partly an homage to them , tarantula and other low- budget b-movie thrillers of the 1950s and '60s , the movie is a silly ( but not sophomoric ) romp through horror and hellish conditions . 
puts a refreshing and comical spin on the all-too-familiar saga of the contemporary single woman . 
if you grew up on scooby -- you'll love this movie . matthew lillard is born to play shaggy ! 
intimate and panoramic . 
though filmed partly in canada , paid in full has clever ways of capturing inner-city life during the reagan years . 
 " spider-man is better than any summer blockbuster we had to endure last summer , and hopefully , sets the tone for a summer of good stuff . if you're a comic fan , you can't miss it . if you're not , you'll still have a good time . " 
exciting documentary . 
this movie has a strong message about never giving up on a loved one , but it's not an easy movie to watch and will probably disturb many who see it . 
the movie is a trove of delights . 
excellent performances from jacqueline bisset and martha plimpton grace this deeply touching melodrama . 
in a summer of clones , harvard man is something rare and riveting : a wild ride that relies on more than special effects . 
while the humor is recognizably plympton , he has actually bothered to construct a real story this time . 
jolting into charleston rhythms , the story has the sizzle of old news that has finally found the right vent ( accurate ? who cares ? ) . 
an overly melodramatic but somewhat insightful french coming-of-age film . . . 
most thrillers send audiences out talking about specific scary scenes or startling moments ; " frailty " leaves us with the terrifying message that the real horror may be waiting for us at home . 
close enough in spirit to its freewheeling trash-cinema roots to be a breath of fresh air . 
skillfully weaves both the elements of the plot and a powerfully evocative mood combining heated sexuality with a haunting sense of malaise . 
damon brings the proper conviction to his role as [jason bourne] . 
for the most part , it works beautifully as a movie without sacrificing the integrity of the opera . 
as played by ryan gosling , danny is a frighteningly fascinating contradiction . 
this is not chabrol's best , but even his lesser works outshine the best some directors can offer . 
despite its flaws , crazy as hell marks an encouraging new direction for la salle . 
you'll end up moved . 
if you ever wondered what it would be like to be smack in the middle of a war zone armed with nothing but a camera , this oscar-nominated documentary takes you there . 
the woodman seems to have directly influenced this girl-meets-girl love story , but even more reassuring is how its makers actually seem to understand what made allen's romantic comedies so pertinent and enduring . 
i loved the look of this film . 
it's the kind of movie that , aside from robert altman , spike lee , the coen brothers and a few others , our moviemakers don't make often enough . 
those with a modicum of patience will find in these characters' foibles a timeless and unique perspective . 
beautiful to watch and holds a certain charm . 
13 conversations may be a bit too enigmatic and overly ambitious to be fully successful , but sprecher and her screenwriting partner and sister , karen sprecher , don't seem ever to run out of ideas . 
the movie is our story as much as it is schmidt's , no matter if it's viewed as a self-reflection or cautionary tale . 
foster breathes life into a roll that could have otherwise been bland and run of the mill . 
quitting offers piercing domestic drama with spikes of sly humor . 
some people want the ol' ball-and-chain and then there are those who just want the ball and chain . 
[barry] gives assassin a disquieting authority . 
it's refreshing to see a romance this smart . 
at its best ( and it does have some very funny sequences ) looking for leonard reminds you just how comically subversive silence can be . 
as improbable as this premise may seem , abbass's understated , shining performance offers us the sense that on some elemental level , lilia deeply wants to break free of her old life . 
anyone who ever fantasized about space travel but can't afford the $20 million ticket to ride a russian rocket should catch this imax offering . 
 " the turntable is now outselling the electric guitar . . . " 
transforms one of [shakespeare's] deepest tragedies into a smart new comedy . 
an intelligent and deeply felt work about impossible , irrevocable choices and the price of making them . 
it may sound like a mere disease-of- the-week tv movie , but a song for martin is made infinitely more wrenching by the performances of real-life spouses seldahl and wollter . 
sayles is making a statement about the inability of dreams and aspirations to carry forward into the next generation . 
as antonia is assimilated into this newfangled community , the film settles in and becomes compulsively watchable in a guilty-pleasure , daytime-drama sort of fashion . 
every once in a while , a movie will come along that turns me into that annoying specimen of humanity that i usually dread encountering the most - the fanboy
on its own staggeringly unoriginal terms , this gender-bending comedy is generally quite funny . 
it's never dull and always looks good . 
the tonal shifts are jolting , and though wen's messages are profound and thoughtfully delivered , more thorough transitions would have made the film more cohesive . 
chicago pode at ser um filme divertido e cativante ( como  ) , mas acaba representando um passo que vai na dire??o contrria  evolu??o dos musicais . 
as commander-in-chief of this film , bigelow demonstrates a breadth of vision and an attention to detail that propels her into the upper echelons of the directing world . 
with wit and empathy to spare , waydowntown acknowledges the silent screams of workaday inertia but stops short of indulging its characters' striving solipsism . 
all of it works smoothly under the direction of spielberg , who does a convincing impersonation here of a director enjoying himself immensely . 
the kind of sweet-and-sour insider movie that film buffs will eat up like so much gelati . 
with 'bowling for columbine , ' michael moore gives us the perfect starting point for a national conversation about guns , violence , and fear . 
one of the year's most weirdly engaging and unpredictable character pieces . 
one of the best inside-show-biz yarns ever . 
none of his actors stand out , but that's less of a problem here than it would be in another film : characterization matters less than atmosphere . 
a terrifically entertaining specimen of spielbergian sci-fi . 
a rare and lightly entertaining look behind the curtain that separates comics from the people laughing in the crowd . 
solondz is so intent on hammering home his message that he forgets to make it entertaining . 
whatever heartwarming scene the impressively discreet filmmakers may have expected to record with their mini dv , they show a remarkable ability to document both sides of this emotional car-wreck . 
it establishes its ominous mood and tension swiftly , and if the suspense never rises to a higher level , it is nevertheless maintained throughout . 
although what time offers tsai's usual style and themes , it has a more colorful , more playful tone than his other films . 
a moving and stark reminder that the casualties of war reach much further than we imagine . 
a thoroughly engaging , surprisingly touching british comedy . 
a sloppy , amusing comedy that proceeds from a stunningly unoriginal premise . 
 . . . a rich and intelligent film that uses its pulpy core conceit to probe questions of attraction and interdependence and how the heart accomodates practical needs . it is an unstinting look at a collaboration between damaged people that may or may not qual
captures that perverse element of the kafkaesque where identity , overnight , is robbed and replaced with a persecuted " other . " 
the actors are simply too good , and the story too intriguing , for technical flaws to get in the way . 
an estrogen opera so intensely feminine that it serves as the antidote ( and cannier doppelganger ) to diesel's xxx flex-a-thon . 
imamura has said that warm water under a red bridge is a poem to the enduring strengths of women . it may also be the best sex comedy about environmental pollution ever made . 
it's a ripper of a yarn and i for one enjoyed the thrill of the chill . naomi watts is terrific as rachel ; her petite frame and vulnerable persona emphasising her plight and isolation . 
a family film that contains some hefty thematic material on time , death , eternity , and what is needed to live a rich and full life . 
with dickens' words and writer-director douglas mcgrath's even-toned direction , a ripping good yarn is told . 
exactly what its title implies : lusty , boisterous and utterly charming . 
the film is darkly funny in its observation of just how much more grueling and time-consuming the illusion of work is than actual work . 
a smart , compelling drama . 
a must-see for fans of thoughtful war films and those interested in the sights and sounds of battle . 
i found myself liking the film , though in this case one man's treasure could prove to be another man's garbage . 
 . . . rogers's mouth never stops shut about the war between the sexes and how to win the battle . 
deliberately and skillfully uses ambiguity to suggest possibilities which imbue the theme with added depth and resonance . 
it's all entertaining enough , but don't look for any hefty anti-establishment message in what is essentially a whip-crack of a buddy movie that ends with a whimper . 
nicholson's understated performance is wonderful . as warren he stumbles in search of all the emotions and life experiences he's neglected over the years . 
despite its old-hat set-up and predictable plot , empire still has enough moments to keep it entertaining . 
another entertaining romp from robert rodriguez . 
it's not a classic spy-action or buddy movie , but it's entertaining enough and worth a look . 
i am more offended by his lack of faith in his audience than by anything on display here . 
a sharp satire of desperation and cinematic deception . 
tsai convincingly paints a specifically urban sense of disassociation here . 
if you can swallow its absurdities and crudities lagaan really is enormously good fun . 
an unorthodox little film noir organized crime story that includes one of the strangest love stories you will ever see . 
a pleasing , often-funny comedy . 
[a] rare movie that makes us re-assess the basis for our lives and evaluate what is truly ours in a world of meaningless activity . 
all three actresses are simply dazzling , particularly balk , who's finally been given a part worthy of her considerable talents . 
an asian neo-realist treasure . 
plummer steals the show without resorting to camp as nicholas' wounded and wounding uncle ralph . it's a great performance and a reminder of dickens' grandeur . 
 . . . less a story than an inexplicable nightmare , right down to the population's shrugging acceptance to each new horror . 
i am highly amused by the idea that we have come to a point in society where it has been deemed important enough to make a film in which someone has to be hired to portray richard dawson . 
a compassionate , moving portrait of an american ( and an america ) always reaching for something just outside his grasp . 
'estupendamente actuada , sumamente emotiva y profundamente humana , es una experiencia flmica imposible de olvidar'
an original little film about one young woman's education . 
the film is about the relationships rather than about the outcome . and it sees those relationships , including that between the son and his wife , and the wife and the father , and between the two brothers , with incredible subtlety and acumen . 
one of those terrific documentaries that collect a bunch of people who are enthusiastic about something and then figures out how to make us share their enthusiasm . 
an instance of an old dog not only learning but inventing a remarkable new trick . 
rodriguez has the chops of a smart-aleck film school brat and the imagination of a big kid . . . 
amy and matthew have a bit of a phony relationship , but the film works in spite of it . 
garcia and the other actors help make the wobbly premise work . 
it's surprisingly decent , particularly for a tenth installment in a series . 
a fascinating , unnerving examination of the delusions of one unstable man . 
good , solid storytelling . 
it's no accident that the accidental spy is a solid action pic that returns the martial arts master to top form . 
leave it to the french to truly capture the terrifying angst of the modern working man without turning the film into a cheap thriller , a dumb comedy or a sappy melodrama . 
the director , mark pellington , does a terrific job conjuring up a sinister , menacing atmosphere though unfortunately all the story gives us is flashing red lights , a rattling noise , and a bump on the head . 
heartwarming here relies less on forced air than on petter n?ss' delicate , clever direction . . . and a wonderful , imaginative script by axel hellstenius . 
makes the case for a strong education and good teachers being more valuable in the way they help increase an average student's self-esteem , and not strictly in the knowledge imparted . 
steers refreshingly clear of the usual cliches . 
 " home movie " is a sweet treasure and something well worth your time . 
highly recommended viewing for its courage , ideas , technical proficiency and great acting . 
the movie's thesis -- elegant technology for the masses -- is surprisingly refreshing . 
scott delivers a terrific performance in this fascinating portrait of a modern lothario . 
 . . . wallace is smart to vary the pitch of his movie , balancing deafening battle scenes with quieter domestic scenes of women back home receiving war department telegrams . 
combines sharp comedy , old-fashioned monster movie atmospherics , and genuine heart to create a film that's not merely about kicking undead * * * , but also about dealing with regret and , ultimately , finding redemption . 
while most films these days are about nothing , this film seems to be about everything that's plaguing the human spirit in a relentlessly globalizing world . 
marshall puts a suspenseful spin on standard horror flick formula . 
as lively an account as seinfeld is deadpan . 
though lan yu lacks a sense of dramatic urgency , the film makes up for it with a pleasing verisimilitude . 
you may leave the theater with more questions than answers , but darned if your toes won't still be tapping . 
take any 12-year-old boy to see this picture , and he'll be your slave for a year . 
but this is not a movie about an inhuman monster ; it's about a very human one . 
at times the guys taps into some powerful emotions , but this kind of material is more effective on stage . it's not a motion picture ; it's an utterly static picture . 
what makes it worth watching is quaid's performance . 
soderbergh skims the fat from the 1972 film . what's left is a rich stew of longing . 
it's the brilliant surfing photography bringing you right inside the massive waves that lifts blue crush into one of the summer's most pleasurable movies . 
more of the same from taiwanese auteur tsai ming-liang , which is good news to anyone who's fallen under the sweet , melancholy spell of this unique director's previous films . 
hatfield and hicks make the oddest of couples , and in this sense the movie becomes a study of the gambles of the publishing world , offering a case study that exists apart from all the movie's political ramifications . 
infidelity drama is nicely shot , well-edited and features a standout performance by diane lane . 
best of all is garcia , who perfectly portrays the desperation of a very insecure man . 
the filmmakers try to balance pointed , often incisive satire and unabashed sweetness , with results that are sometimes bracing , sometimes baffling and quite often , and in unexpected ways , touching . 
a sobering and powerful documentary about the most severe kind of personal loss : rejection by one's mother . 
audacious-impossible yet compelling . . . 
often overwrought and at times positively irritating , the film turns into an engrossing thriller almost in spite of itself . 
humorous and heartfelt , douglas mcgrath's version of 'nicholas nickleby' left me feeling refreshed and hopeful . not many movies have that kind of impact on me these days . 
a poignant lyricism runs through balzac and the little chinese seamstress that transforms this story about love and culture into a cinematic poem . 
this is so de palma . if you love him , you'll like it . if you don't . . . well , skip to another review . 
rouge is less about a superficial midlife crisis than it is about the need to stay in touch with your own skin , at 18 or 80 . 
the moral shrapnel and mental shellshock will linger long after this film has ended . 
o ltimo suspeito ganha for?a ao tambm funcionar em uma esfera adicional : a do drama familiar . 
unfolds in a series of achronological vignettes whose cumulative effect is chilling . 
the movie enters a realm where few non-porn films venture , and comes across as darkly funny , energetic , and surprisingly gentle . 
although the subject matter may still be too close to recent national events , the film works - mostly due to its superior cast of characters . 
it's not going to be everyone's bag of popcorn , but it definitely gives you something to chew on . 
huppert and girardot give performances of exceptional honesty . 
it has that rare quality of being able to creep the living hell out of you . . . 
a cautionary tale about the grandiosity of a college student who sees himself as impervious to a fall . 
an infinitely wittier version of the home alone formula . 
feardotcom's thrills are all cheap , but they mostly work . 
[hayek] throws herself into this dream hispanic role with a teeth-clenching gusto , she strikes a potent chemistry with molina and she gradually makes us believe she is kahlo . 
mr . deeds is , as comedy goes , very silly -- and in the best way . 
you could love safe conduct ( laissez passer ) for being a subtitled french movie that is 170 minutes long . you could hate it for the same reason . 
with we were soldiers , hollywood makes a valiant attempt to tell a story about the vietnam war before the pathology set in . 
'moore is like a progressive bull in a china shop , a provocateur crashing into ideas and special-interest groups as he slaps together his own brand of liberalism . '
broomfield reveals an ironic manifestation of institutionalized slavery that ties a black-owned record label with a white-empowered police force . 
at just over an hour , home movie will leave you wanting more , not to mention leaving you with some laughs and a smile on your face . 
stuart's poor-me persona needs a whole bunch of snowball's cynicism to cut through the sugar coating . but once the falcon arrives in the skies above manhattan , the adventure is on red alert . 
there is greatness here . 
boasts enough funny dialogue and sharp characterizations to be mildly amusing . 
director juan jose campanella could have turned this into an argentine retread of " iris " or " american beauty , " but instead pulls a little from each film and creates something more beautiful than either of those films . 
if you love the music , and i do , its hard to imagine having more fun watching a documentary . . . 
nakata's technique is to imply terror by suggestion , rather than the overuse of special effects . 
 " 13 conversations about one thing " is an intelligent flick that examines many different ideas from happiness to guilt in an intriguing bit of storytelling . 
satin rouge is not a new , or inventive , journey , but it's encouraging to see a three-dimensional , average , middle-aged woman's experience of self-discovery handled with such sensitivity . 
though an important political documentary , this does not really make the case the kissinger should be tried as a war criminal . 
cannon's confidence and laid-back good spirits are , with the drumming routines , among the film's saving graces . 
in its understanding , often funny way , it tells a story whose restatement is validated by the changing composition of the nation . 
she may not be real , but the laughs are . 
a fiercely clever and subtle film , capturing the precarious balance between the extravagant confidence of the exiled aristocracy and the cruel earnestness of the victorious revolutionaries . 
ok arthouse . the power of this script , and the performances that come with it , is that the whole damned thing didn't get our moral hackles up . 
the movie itself is far from disappointing , offering an original take on courtroom movies , a few nifty twists that are so crucial to the genre and another first-rate performance by top-billed star bruce willis . 
about schmidt is undoubtedly one of the finest films of the year . if you're not deeply touched by this movie , check your pulse . 
the charm of revolution os is rather the way it introduces you to new , fervently held ideas and fanciful thinkers . 
until its final minutes this is a perceptive study of two families in crisis -- and of two girls whose friendship is severely tested by bad luck and their own immaturity . 
offers the flash of rock videos fused with solid performances and eerie atmosphere . 
filmmakers dana janklowicz-mann and amir mann area headed east , far east , in retelling a historically significant , and personal , episode detailing how one international city welcomed tens of thousands of german jewish refugees while the world's democracie
for all its problems . . . the lady and the duke surprisingly manages never to grow boring . . . which proves that rohmer still has a sense of his audience . 
an edifying glimpse into the wit and revolutionary spirit of these performers and their era . 
craig bartlett and director tuck tucker should be commended for illustrating the merits of fighting hard for something that really matters . 
the film is saved from aren't-kids-cute sentimentality by a warmth that isn't faked and a stately sense of composition . 
this is one of the year's best films . 
a fleet-footed and pleasingly upbeat family diversion . 
sorvino is delightful in the central role . she nearly glows with enthusiasm , sensuality and a conniving wit . 
it's immensely ambitious , different than anything that's been done before and amazingly successful in terms of what it's trying to do . 
the story , once it gets rolling , is nothing short of a great one . 
great performances , stylish cinematography and a gritty feel help make gangster no . 1 a worthwhile moviegoing experience . 
 " mr . deeds " is suitable summer entertainment that offers escapism without requiring a great deal of thought . 
it's an ambitious film , and as with all ambitious films , it has some problems . but on the whole , you're gonna like this movie . 
chaiken ably balances real-time rhythms with propulsive incident . 
this is an extraordinary film , not least because it is japanese and yet feels universal . 
in a summer overrun with movies dominated by cgi aliens and super heroes , it revigorates the mind to see a feature that concentrates on people , a project in which the script and characters hold sway . 
there's just something about watching a squad of psychopathic underdogs whale the tar out of unsuspecting lawmen that reaches across time and distance . 
a funny and touching film that is gorgeously acted by a british cast to rival gosford park's . 
there's nothing more satisfying during a summer of event movies than a spy thriller like the bourne identity that's packed with just as much intelligence as action . 
i'm not generally a fan of vegetables but this batch is pretty cute . 
qutting may be a flawed film , but it is nothing if not sincere . 
beautifully crafted , engaging filmmaking that should attract upscale audiences hungry for quality and a nostalgic , twisty yarn that will keep them guessing . 
a thoughtful and surprisingly affecting portrait of a screwed-up man who dared to mess with some powerful people , seen through the eyes of the idealistic kid who chooses to champion his ultimately losing cause . 
a cultural wildcard experience : wacky , different , unusual , even nutty . 
daughter from danang reveals that efforts toward closure only open new wounds . it doesn't flinch from its unsettling prognosis , namely , that the legacy of war is a kind of perpetual pain . 
for most of its footage , the new thriller proves that director m . night shyamalan can weave an eerie spell and that mel gibson can gasp , shudder and even tremble without losing his machismo . 
this is not an easy film . but it could be , by its art and heart , a necessary one . 
a very good film sits in the place where a masterpiece should be . 
 . . . spellbinding fun and deliciously exploitative . 
it's jagger's bone-dry , mournfully brittle delivery that gives the film its bittersweet bite . 
impossible as it may sound , this film's heart is even more embracing than monty , if only because it accepts nasty behavior and severe flaws as part of the human condition . 
despite the predictable parent vs . child coming-of-age theme , first-class , natural acting and a look at " the real americans " make this a charmer . 
one of the smarter offerings the horror genre has produced in recent memory , even if it's far tamer than advertised . 
one of recent memory's most thoughtful films about art , ethics , and the cost of moral compromise . 
the film doesn't sustain its initial promise with a jarring , new-agey tone creeping into the second half
blade ii is as estrogen-free as movies get , so you might want to leave your date behind for this one , or she's gonna make you feel like you owe her big-time . 
the message is that even the most unlikely can link together to conquer all kinds of obstacles , whether they be of nature , of man or of one another . 
many a parent and their teen ( or preteen ) kid could bond while watching a walk to remember . so could young romantics out on a date . 
all leather pants & augmented boobs , hawn is hilarious as she tries to resuscitate the fun-loving libertine lost somewhere inside the conservative , handbag-clutching sarandon . 
the members manage to pronounce kok exactly as you think they might , thus giving the cast ample opportunity to use that term as often as possible . it's very beavis and butthead , yet always seems to elicit a chuckle . 
while this gentle and affecting melodrama will have luvvies in raptures , it's far too slight and introspective to appeal to anything wider than a niche audience . 
chicago offers much colorful eye candy , including the spectacle of gere in his dancing shoes , hoofing and crooning with the best of them . 
a difficult but worthy film that bites off more than it can chew by linking the massacre of armenians in 1915 with some difficult relationships in the present . 
by and large this is mr . kilmer's movie , and it's his strongest performance since the doors . 
some of the most ravaging , gut-wrenching , frightening war scenes since " saving private ryan " have been recreated by john woo in this little-known story of native americans and their role in the second great war . 
a charming but slight comedy . 
henry bean's thoughtful screenplay provides no easy answers , but offers a compelling investigation of faith versus intellect
a great cast and a wonderful but sometimes confusing flashback movie about growing up in a dysfunctional family . 
playing a role of almost bergmanesque intensity . . . bisset is both convincing and radiant . 
a smart , provocative drama that does the nearly impossible : it gets under the skin of a man we only know as an evil , monstrous lunatic . 
an alternately fascinating and frustrating documentary . 
griffin & co . manage to be spectacularly outrageous . 
nair's cast is so large it's altman-esque , but she deftly spins the multiple stories in a vibrant and intoxicating fashion . 
the movie plays up the cartoon's more obvious strength of snazziness while neglecting its less conspicuous writing strength . 
poignant japanese epic about adolescent anomie and heartbreak . 
we've seen it all before in one form or another , but director hoffman , with great help from kevin kline , makes us care about this latest reincarnation of the world's greatest teacher . 
secretary is not a movie about fetishism . it is a movie about passion . 
even though it's common knowledge that park and his founding partner , yong kang , lost kozmo in the end , you can't help but get caught up in the thrill of the company's astonishing growth . 
although some viewers will not be able to stomach so much tongue-in-cheek weirdness , those who do will have found a cult favorite to enjoy for a lifetime . 
what could have easily become a cold , calculated exercise in postmodern pastiche winds up a powerful and deeply moving example of melodramatic moviemaking . 
a delightful surprise because despite all the backstage drama , this is a movie that tells stories that work -- is charming , is moving , is funny and looks professional . 
the imax screen enhances the personal touch of manual animation . 
does an impressive job of relating the complicated history of the war and of filling in the background . 
it's all about anakin . . . and the lustrous polished visuals rich in color and creativity and , of course , special effect . 
lacks the inspiration of the original and has a bloated plot that stretches the running time about 10 minutes past a child's interest and an adult's patience . but it also has many of the things that made the first one charming . 
it's funny , touching , dramatically forceful , and beautifully shot . 
its rawness and vitality give it considerable punch . 
a live-wire film that never loses its ability to shock and amaze . 
the year's greatest adventure , and jackson's limited but enthusiastic adaptation has made literature literal without killing its soul -- a feat any thinking person is bound to appreciate . 
it's fairly solid--not to mention well edited so that it certainly doesn't feel like a film that strays past the two and a half mark . 
brims with passion : for words , for its eccentric , accident-prone characters , and for the crazy things that keep people going in this crazy life . 
it's secondary to american psycho but still has claws enough to get inside you and stay there for a couple of hours . 
the hours , a delicately crafted film , is an impressive achievement in spite of a river of sadness that pours into every frame . 
fudges fact and fancy with such confidence that we feel as if we're seeing something purer than the real thing . 
this is unusual , food-for-thought cinema that's as entertaining as it is instructive . 
with an expressive face reminiscent of gong li and a vivid personality like zhang ziyi's , dong stakes out the emotional heart of happy . 
nohe's documentary about the event is sympathetic without being gullible : he isn't blind to the silliness , but also captures moments of spontaneous creativity and authentic co-operative interaction . 
it may not be as cutting , as witty or as true as back in the glory days of weekend and two or three things i know about her , but who else engaged in filmmaking today is so cognizant of the cultural and moral issues involved in the process ? 
secret ballot is a funny , puzzling movie ambiguous enough to be engaging and oddly moving . 
although devoid of objectivity and full of nostalgic comments from the now middle-aged participants , dogtown and z-boys has a compelling story to tell . 
it's got some pretentious eye-rolling moments and it didn't entirely grab me , but there's stuff here to like . 
birthday girl walks a tricky tightrope between being wickedly funny and just plain wicked . 
a muted freak-out
the enjoyable undercover brother , a zany mix of saturday night live-style parody , '70s blaxploitation films and goofball action comedy gone wild , dishes out a ton of laughs that everyone can enjoy . 
brings an irresistible blend of warmth and humor and a consistent embracing humanity in the face of life's harshness . 
jackson is always watchable . 
to the degree that ivans xtc . works , it's thanks to huston's revelatory performance . 
a wild ride of a movie that keeps throwing fastballs . 
confessions is without a doubt a memorable directorial debut from king hunk . 
weird , vulgar comedy that's definitely an acquired taste . 
a . . . cynical and serious look at teenage boys doing what they do best - being teenagers . 
the film is a very good viewing alternative for young women . 
australian filmmaker david flatman uses the huge-screen format to make an old-fashioned nature film that educates viewers with words and pictures while entertaining them . 
a dazzling dream of a documentary . 
a keep-'em-guessing plot and an affectionate take on its screwed-up characters . 
moving and vibrant . 
brave and sweetly rendered love story . 
the film proves unrelentingly grim -- and equally engrossing . 
a hallmark film in an increasingly important film industry and worth the look . 
the last kiss will probably never achieve the popularity of my big fat greek wedding , but its provocative central wedding sequence has far more impact . 
if you like blood , guts and crazy beasts stalking men with guns though . . . you will likely enjoy this monster . 
the difference between cho and most comics is that her confidence in her material is merited . 
sad to say -- it accurately reflects the rage and alienation that fuels the self-destructiveness of many young people . 
there is a strong directorial stamp on every frame of this stylish film that is able to visualize schizophrenia but is still confident enough to step back and look at the sick character with a sane eye . 
'anyone with a passion for cinema , and indeed sex , should see it as soon as possible . '
seeks to transcend its genre with a curiously stylized , quasi-shakespearean portrait of pure misogynist evil . 
mordantly funny and intimately knowing . . . 
what makes the movie special is its utter sincerity . 
fast and funny , an action cartoon that's suspenseful enough for older kids but not too scary for the school-age crowd . 
one of those rare films that come by once in a while with flawless amounts of acting , direction , story and pace . 
the aaa of action , xxx is a blast of adrenalin , rated eee for excitement . and vin diesel is the man . 
earnest , unsubtle and hollywood-predictable , green dragon is still a deeply moving effort to put a human face on the travail of thousands of vietnamese . 
an ambitious movie that , like shiner's organizing of the big fight , pulls off enough of its effects to make up for the ones that don't come off . 
nair and writer laura cahill dare to build a movie around some flawed but rather unexceptional women , emerging with a fine character study that's short on plot but rich in the tiny revelations of real life . 
the film's unhurried pace is actually one of its strengths . entirely appropriately , the tale unfolds like a lazy summer afternoon and concludes with the crisp clarity of a fall dawn . 
despite its floating narrative , this is a remarkably accessible and haunting film . 
vibrantly colored and beautifully designed , metropolis is a feast for the eyes . 
sweetly sexy , funny and touching . 
 . . . while dark water isn't a complete wash ( no pun intended ) , watched side-by-side with ringu , it ultimately comes off as a pale successor . 
is truth stranger than fiction ? in [screenwriter] charlie kaufman's world , truth and fiction are equally strange , and his for the taking . 
for decades we've marveled at disney's rendering of water , snow , flames and shadows in a hand-drawn animated world . prepare to marvel again . 
a witty , low-key romantic comedy . 
more good than great but freeman and judd make it work . 
if you're looking for a smart , nuanced look at de sade and what might have happened at picpus , sade is your film . 
could have been crisper and punchier , but it's likely to please audiences who like movies that demand four hankies . 
together writer-director danny verete's three tales comprise a powerful and reasonably fulfilling gestalt . 
bursting through the constraints of its source , this is one adapted- from-television movie that actually looks as if it belongs on the big screen . 
 . . . quite endearing . 
its almost too-spectacular coastal setting distracts slightly from an eccentric and good-naturedly aimless story . 
in other words , it's just another sports drama/character study . yet this one makes up for in heart what it lacks in outright newness . plus , like i already mentioned . . . it's robert duvall ! c'mon ! 
this story of a determined woman's courage to find her husband in a war zone offers winning performances and some effecting moments . 
like shrek , spirit's visual imagination reminds you of why animation is such a perfect medium for children , because of the way it allows the mind to enter and accept another world . 
a modestly made but profoundly moving documentary . 
it irritates and saddens me that martin lawrence's latest vehicle can explode obnoxiously into 2 , 500 screens while something of bubba ho-tep's clearly evident quality may end up languishing on a shelf somewhere . 
not everything in this ambitious comic escapade works , but coppola , along with his sister , sofia , is a real filmmaker . it must be in the genes . 
the performers are so spot on , it is hard to conceive anyone else in their roles . 
this slight premise . . . works because of the ideal casting of the masterful british actor ian holm as the aged napoleon . 
hashiguchi covers this territory with wit and originality , suggesting that with his fourth feature -- the first to be released in the u . s . -- a major director is emerging in world cinema . 
although the film boils down to a lightweight story about matchmaking , the characters make italian for beginners worth the journey
the dragons are the real stars of reign of fire and you won't be disappointed . 
kudos to the most enchanting film of the year . 
it works well enough , since the thrills pop up frequently , and the dispatching of the cast is as often imaginative as it is gory . 
colorful and deceptively buoyant until it suddenly pulls the rug out from under you , burkinabe filmmaker dani kouyate's reworking of a folk story whose roots go back to 7th-century oral traditions is also a pointed political allegory . 
it's a powerful though flawed movie , guaranteed to put a lump in your throat while reaffirming washington as possibly the best actor working in movies today . 
director paul cox's unorthodox , abstract approach to visualizing nijinsky's diaries is both stimulating and demanding . 
for 95 often hilarious minutes , [cho] riffs on the diciness of colonics , on straight versus gay personal ads , on how men would act if they had periods , and on the perils of a certain outr sexual practice . 
most of the things that made the original men in black such a pleasure are still there . 
mostly honest , this somber picture reveals itself slowly , intelligently , artfully . 
best enjoyed as a work of fiction inspired by real-life events . those seeking a definitive account of eisenstein's life would do better elsewhere . 
[westbrook] makes a wonderful subject for the camera . 
a film that's flawed and brilliant in equal measure . 
even if invincible is not quite the career peak that the pianist is for roman polanski , it demonstrates that werner herzog can still leave us with a sense of wonder at the diverse , marvelously twisted shapes history has taken . 
ultimately too repellent to fully endear itself to american art house audiences , but it is notable for its stylistic austerity and forcefulness . 
hardly a film that comes along every day . 
harmless fun . 
a wild ride with eight boarders from venice beach that was a deserved co-winner of the audience award for documentaries at the sundance film festival . 
the film's only missteps come from the script's insistence on providing deep emotional motivation for each and every one of abagnale's antics . 
a sweet , tender sermon about a 12-year-old welsh boy more curious about god than girls , who learns that believing in something does matter . 
the film belongs to the marvelous verdu , a sexy slip of an earth mother who mourns her tragedies in private and embraces life in public
more intimate than spectacular , e . t . is carried less by wow factors than by its funny , moving yarn that holds up well after two decades . 
for once , a movie does not proclaim the truth about two love-struck somebodies , but permits them time and space to convince us of that all on their own . 
if you're burnt out on it's a wonderful life marathons and bored with a christmas carol , it might just be the movie you're looking for . it depends on how well flatulence gags fit into your holiday concept . 
moonlight mile doesn't quite go the distance but the cast is impressive and they all give life to these broken characters who are trying to make their way through this tragedy . 
it is an indelible epic american story about two families , one black and one white , facing change in both their inner and outer lives . 
not as well-written as sexy beast , not as gloriously flippant as lock , stock and two smoking barrels , but stylish and moody and exceptionally well-acted . 
quite simply , a joy to watch and--especially--to listen to . 
a flawed film but an admirable one that tries to immerse us in a world of artistic abandon and political madness and very nearly succeeds . 
the filmmakers wisely decided to let crocodile hunter steve irwin do what he does best , and fashion a story around him . 
a winning and wildly fascinating work . 
we do get the distinct impression that this franchise is drawing to a close . 
worth catching for griffiths' warm and winning central performance . 
the tone errs on the shrill side , tempered by a soft southern gentility that speaks of beauty , grace and a closet full of skeletons . 
an interesting psychological game of cat-and-mouse , three-dimensional characters and believable performances all add up to a satisfying crime drama . 
a meatier deeper beginning and/or ending would have easily tipped this film into the " a " range , as is , it's a very very strong " b+ . " i love the robust middle of this picture . 
the power of shanghai ghetto , a documentary by dana janklowicz-mann and amir mann , rests in the voices of men and women , now in their 70s , who lived there in the 1940s . 
maintains your interest until the end and even leaves you with a few lingering animated thoughts . 
there is a beautiful , aching sadness to it all . paul cox needed to show it . it is up to you to decide if you need to see it . 
if divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood suffers from a ploddingly melodramatic structure , it comes to life in the performances . 
if you ignore the cliches and concentrate on city by the sea's interpersonal drama , it ain't half-bad . 
alternates between deadpan comedy and heartbreaking loneliness and isn't afraid to provoke introspection in both its characters and its audience . 
there aren't too many films that can be as simultaneously funny , offbeat and heartwarming ( without a thick shmear of the goo , at least ) , but " elling " manages to do all three quite well , making it one of the year's most enjoyable releases . 
reign of fire is hardly the most original fantasy film ever made -- beyond road warrior , it owes enormous debts to aliens and every previous dragon drama -- but that barely makes it any less entertaining . 
an earnest , roughshod document , it serves as a workable primer for the region's recent history , and would make a terrific 10th-grade learning tool . 
samuel beckett applied to the iranian voting process . 
the bard as black comedy -- willie would have loved it . 
another trumpet blast that there may be a new mexican cinema a-bornin' . 
' . . . the film's considered approach to its subject matter is too calm and thoughtful for agitprop , and the thinness of its characterizations makes it a failure as straight drama . '
tadpole may be one of the most appealing movies ever made about an otherwise appalling , and downright creepy , subject -- a teenage boy in love with his stepmother . 
this is a story that zings all the way through with originality , humour and pathos . 
as underwater ghost stories go , below casts its spooky net out into the atlantic ocean and spits it back , grizzled and charred , somewhere northwest of the bermuda triangle . 
it is a challenging film , if not always a narratively cohesive one . 
trapped won't score points for political correctness , but it may cause parents a few sleepless hours -- a sign of its effectiveness . 
a rock-solid gangster movie with a fair amount of suspense , intriguing characters and bizarre bank robberies , plus a heavy dose of father-and-son dynamics . 
it's incredible the number of stories the holocaust has generated . just when you think that every possible angle has been exhausted by documentarians , another new film emerges with yet another remarkable yet shockingly little-known perspective . 
as they used to say in the 1950s sci-fi movies , signs is a tribute to shyamalan's gifts , which are such that we'll keep watching the skies for his next project . 
there's no conversion effort , much of the writing is genuinely witty and both stars are appealing enough to probably have a good shot at a hollywood career , if they want one . 
like a skillful fisher , the director uses the last act to reel in the audience since its poignancy hooks us completely . 
a film with contemporary political resonance illustrated by a winning family story . 
kids five and up will be delighted with the fast , funny , and even touching story . parents may even find that it goes by quickly , because it has some of the funniest jokes of any movie this year , including those intended for adults . 
an unsettling , memorable cinematic experience that does its predecessors proud . 
maid in manhattan might not look so appealing on third or fourth viewing down the road . . . but as a high concept vehicle for two bright stars of the moment who can rise to fans' lofty expectations , the movie passes inspection . 
much of all about lily chou-chou is mesmerizing : some of its plaintiveness could make you weep . 
ferrara's strongest and most touching movie of recent years . 
spielberg's first real masterpiece , it deserved all the hearts it won -- and wins still , 20 years later . 
the screenwriters dig themselves in deeper every time they toss logic and science into what is essentially a " dungeons and dragons " fantasy with modern military weaponry . . . 
more than simply a portrait of early extreme sports , this peek into the 1970s skateboard revolution is a skateboard film as social anthropology . . . 
what i saw , i enjoyed . 
good-naturedly cornball sequel . 
the level of acting elevates the material above pat inspirational status and gives it a sturdiness and solidity that we've long associated with washington the actor . 
a deft , delightful mix of sulky teen drama and overcoming-obstacles sports-movie triumph . 
daringly perceptive , taut , piercing and feisty , biggie and tupac is undeniably subversive and involving in its bold presentation . 
delivers more than its fair share of saucy hilarity . 
a fairly enjoyable mixture of longest yard . . . and the 1999 guy ritchie caper lock stock and two smoking barrels . 
happily , some things are immune to the folly of changing taste and attitude . for proof of that on the cinematic front , look no further than this 20th anniversary edition of the film that spielberg calls , retrospectively , his most personal work yet . 
hugely entertaining from start to finish , featuring a fall from grace that still leaves shockwaves , it will gratify anyone who has ever suspected hollywood of being overrun by corrupt and hedonistic weasels . 
it's not like having a real film of nijinsky , but at least it's better than that eponymous 1980 biopic that used soap in the places where the mysteries lingered . 
it's probably worth catching solely on its visual merits . if only it had the story to match . 
like other great documentaries . . . this goes after one truth ( the ford administration's complicity in tearing 'orphans' from their mothers ) and stumbles upon others even more compelling . 
 . . . only bond can save us from the latest eccentric , super-wealthy megalomaniac bent on world domination and destruction . 
the first half bursts with a goofy energy previous disney films only used for a few minutes here and there . 
it's quite diverting nonsense . 
an old-fashioned scary movie , one that relies on lingering terror punctuated by sudden shocks and not constant bloodshed punctuated by flying guts . 
for all the wit and hoopla , festival in cannes offers rare insight into the structure of relationships . 
what makes how i killed my father compelling , besides its terrific performances , is fontaine's willingness to wander into the dark areas of parent-child relationships without flinching . 
renner ? s face is chillingly unemotive , yet he communicates a great deal in his performance . see it for his performance if nothing else . 
 . . . the kind of entertainment that parents love to have their kids see . 
it's a fine , focused piece of work that reopens an interesting controversy and never succumbs to sensationalism . 
its engaging simplicity is driven by appealing leads . 
swimming is above all about a young woman's face , and by casting an actress whose face projects that woman's doubts and yearnings , it succeeds . 
a respectable venture on its own terms , lacking the broader vision that has seen certain trek films . . . cross over to a more mainstream audience . 
it's weird , wonderful , and not necessarily for kids . 
an elegant film with often surprising twists and an intermingling of naivet and sophistication . 
blessed with two fine , nuanced lead performances . 
while this has the making of melodrama , the filmmaker cuts against this natural grain , producing a work that's more interested in asking questions than in answering them . 
as a girl-meets-girl romantic comedy , kissing jessica steinis quirky , charming and often hilarious . yet it's not quite the genre-busting film it's been hyped to be because it plays everything too safe . 
you don't need to know your ice-t's from your cool-j's to realize that as far as these shootings are concerned , something is rotten in the state of california . 
turturro is fabulously funny and over the top as a 'very sneaky' butler who excels in the art of impossible disappearing/reappearing acts
meant for star wars fans . it is there to give them a good time . 
from a deceptively simple premise , this deeply moving french drama develops a startling story that works both as a detailed personal portrait and as a rather frightening examination of modern times . 
simply and eloquently articulates the tangled feelings of particular new yorkers deeply touched by an unprecedented tragedy . 
provides a very moving and revelatory footnote to the holocaust . 
terrific performances , great to look at , and funny . a little uneven to be the cat's meow , but it's good enough to be the purr . 
it's a compelling and horrifying story , and the laramie project is worthwhile for reminding us that this sort of thing does , in fact , still happen in america . 
i like it . there is a freedom to watching stunts that are this crude , this fast-paced and this insane . 
that rare documentary that incorporates so much of human experience -- drama , conflict , tears and surprise -- that it transcends the normal divisions between fiction and nonfiction film . 
that rare movie that works on any number of levels -- as a film of magic and whimsy for children , a heartfelt romance for teenagers and a compelling argument about death , both pro and con , for adults . 
it's both degrading and strangely liberating to see people working so hard at leading lives of sexy intrigue , only to be revealed by the dispassionate gantz brothers as ordinary , pasty lumpen . 
a sharp and quick documentary that is funny and pithy , while illuminating an era of theatrical comedy that , while past , really isn't . 
the script is smart , not cloying . 
the film does a solid job of slowly , steadily building up to the climactic burst of violence . 
fred schepisi's tale of four englishmen facing the prospect of their own mortality views youthful affluence not as a lost ideal but a starting point . 
the directive to protect the code at all costs also begins to blur as the importance of the man and the code merge
overall , cletis tout is a winning comedy that excites the imagination and tickles the funny bone . 
easily one of the best and most exciting movies of the year . 
the script manages the rare trick of seeming at once both refreshingly different and reassuringly familiar . 
an engaging , formulaic sports drama that carries a charge of genuine excitement . 
insomnia is one of the year's best films and pacino gives one of his most daring , and complicated , performances . 
like vardalos and corbett , who play their roles with vibrant charm , the film , directed by joel zwick , is heartfelt and hilarious in ways you can't fake . 
i don't know if frailty will turn bill paxton into an a-list director , but he can rest contentedly with the knowledge that he's made at least one damn fine horror movie . 
despite its flaws . . . belinsky is still able to create an engaging story that keeps you guessing at almost every turn . 
each punch seen through prison bars , the fights become not so much a struggle of man vs . man as brother-man vs . the man . 
the evocative imagery and gentle , lapping rhythms of this film are infectious -- it gets under our skin and draws us in long before the plot kicks into gear . 
like the best of godard's movies . . . it is visually ravishing , penetrating , impenetrable . 
horns and halos benefits from serendipity but also reminds us of our own responsibility to question what is told as the truth . 
oddly compelling . 
[has] an immediacy and an intimacy that sucks you in and dares you not to believe it's all true . 
it treats ana's journey with honesty that is tragically rare in the depiction of young women in film . 
captivates as it shows excess in business and pleasure , allowing us to find the small , human moments , and leaving off with a grand whimper . 
a refreshingly realistic , affectation-free coming-of-age tale . 
how good this film might be , depends if you believe that the shocking conclusion is too much of a plunge or not . 
great fun both for sports aficionados and for ordinary louts whose idea of exercise is climbing the steps of a stadium-seat megaplex . 
features one of the most affecting depictions of a love affair ever committed to film . 
to honestly address the flaws inherent in how medical aid is made available to american workers , a more balanced or fair portrayal of both sides will be needed . 
one of the best movies of the year . 
the usual movie rah-rah , pleasantly and predictably delivered in low-key style by director michael apted and writer tom stoppard . 
a superlative b movie -- funny , sexy , and rousing . 
those prone to indignation need not apply ; those susceptible to blue hilarity , step right up . 
witless but watchable . 
like mike isn't going to make box office money that makes michael jordan jealous , but it has some cute moments , funny scenes , and hits the target audience ( young bow wow fans ) - with nothing but net . 
[dong] makes a valiant effort to understand everyone's point of view , and he does such a good job of it that family fundamentals gets you riled up . 
the trick when watching godard is to catch the pitch of his poetics , savor the pleasure of his sounds and images , and ponder the historical , philosophical , and ethical issues that intersect with them . 
at its best , which occurs often , michael moore's bowling for columbine rekindles the muckraking , soul-searching spirit of the 'are we a sick society ? ' journalism of the 1960s . 
a modestly surprising movie . 
a headline-fresh thriller set among orthodox jews on the west bank , joseph cedar's time of favor manages not only to find a compelling dramatic means of addressing a complex situation , it does so without compromising that complexity . 
there's a spontaneity to the chateau , a sense of light-heartedness , that makes it attractive throughout . 
the first tunisian film i have ever seen , and it's also probably the most good-hearted yet sensual entertainment i'm likely to see all year . 
like any good romance , son of the bride , proves it's never too late to learn . 
[kline's] utterly convincing -- and deeply appealing -- as a noble teacher who embraces a strict moral code , and as a flawed human being who can't quite live up to it . 
the film , while not exactly assured in its execution , is notable for its sheer audacity and openness . 
a thoroughly enjoyable , heartfelt coming-of-age comedy . 
feeling like a dope has rarely been more fun than it is in nine queens . 
leigh makes these lives count . and he allows a gawky actor like spall -- who could too easily become comic relief in any other film -- to reveal his impressively delicate range . 
a lot of fun , with an undeniable energy sparked by two actresses in their 50s working at the peak of their powers . 
promises is one film that's truly deserving of its oscar nomination . 
what bubbles up out of john c . walsh's pipe dream is the distinct and very welcome sense of watching intelligent people making a movie they might actually want to watch . 
if reno is to the left of liberal on the political spectrum , her tough , funny , rather chaotic show isn't subversive so much as it is nit-picky about the hypocrisies of our time . 
beautiful , angry and sad , with a curious sick poetry , as if the marquis de sade had gone in for pastel landscapes . 
ms . hutchins is talented enough and charismatic enough to make us care about zelda's ultimate fate . 
monte cristo smartly emphasizes the well-wrought story and omits needless chase scenes and swordfights as the revenge unfolds . 
a mesmerizing cinematic poem from the first frame to the last . 
[it's] a clever thriller with enough unexpected twists to keep our interest . 
an undeniably moving film to experience , and ultimately that's what makes it worth a recommendation . 
nicole kidman evolved from star to superstar some time over the past year , which means that birthday girl is the kind of quirkily appealing minor movie she might not make for a while . 
vividly conveys the shadow side of the 30-year friendship between two english women . 
the story has some nice twists but the ending and some of the back-story is a little tired . the performances are all solid ; it merely lacks originality to make it a great movie . 
manages to please its intended audience -- children -- without placing their parents in a coma-like state . 
mr . deeds is sure to give you a lot of laughs in this simple , sweet and romantic comedy . 
when you think you've figured out bielinsky's great game , that's when you're in the most trouble : he's the con , and you're just the mark . 
a strong first act and absolutely , inescapably gorgeous , skyscraper-trapeze motion of the amazing spider-man . 
driven by a fantastic dual performance from ian holm . . . the film is funny , insightfully human and a delightful lark for history buffs . 
a well-put-together piece of urban satire . 
it's the sweet cinderella story that " pretty woman " wanted to be . 
it will make you think twice about what might be going on inside each trailer park you drive past -- even if it chiefly inspires you to drive a little faster . 
what doesn't this film have that an impressionable kid couldn't stand to hear ? 
what saves it . . . and makes it one of the better video-game-based flicks , is that the film acknowledges upfront that the plot makes no sense , such that the lack of linearity is the point of emotional and moral departure for protagonist alice . 
a deeply felt and vividly detailed story about newcomers in a strange new world . 
it's a visual delight and a decent popcorn adventure , as long as you don't try to look too deep into the story
it's a feel-good movie about which you can actually feel good . 
a full experience , a love story and a murder mystery that expands into a meditation on the deep deceptions of innocence . 
visually , 'santa clause 2' is wondrously creative . 
the powerpuff girls arrive on the big screen with their super-powers , their super-simple animation and their super-dooper-adorability intact . 
[raimi's] matured quite a bit with spider-man , even though it's one of the most plain white toast comic book films you'll ever see . 
a new film from bill plympton , the animation master , is always welcome . 
a devastating indictment of unbridled greed and materalism . 
what makes the film special is the refreshingly unhibited enthusiasm that the people , in spite of clearly evident poverty and hardship , bring to their music . 
the film has a kind of hard , cold effect . 
the gags are often a stitch . 
the asylum material is gripping , as are the scenes of jia with his family . 
a bonanza of wacky sight gags , outlandish color schemes , and corny visual puns that can be appreciated equally as an abstract frank tashlin comedy and as a playful recapitulation of the artist's career . 
one can't deny its seriousness and quality . 
good performances and a realistic , non-exploitive approach make paid in full worth seeing . 
this engrossing , characteristically complex tom clancy thriller is shifty in the manner in which it addresses current terrorism anxieties and sidesteps them at the same time . 
ryan gosling is , in a word , brilliant as the conflicted daniel . 
 . . . somehow manages to escape the shackles of its own clichs to be the best espionage picture to come out in weeks . 
much of the lady and the duke is about quiet , decisive moments between members of the cultural elite as they determine how to proceed as the world implodes . 
takes a simple premise and carries it to unexpected heights . 
with few respites , marshall keeps the energy humming , and his edits , unlike those in moulin rouge , are crisp and purposeful without overdoing it . 
its metaphors are opaque enough to avoid didacticism , and the film succeeds as an emotionally accessible , almost mystical work . 
provides a satisfactory overview of the bizarre world of extreme athletes as several daredevils express their own views . 
inventive , fun , intoxicatingly sexy , violent , self-indulgent and maddening . 
hard to resist . 
comedian , like its subjects , delivers the goods and audiences will have a fun , no-frills ride . 
a naturally funny film , home movie makes you crave chris smith's next movie . 
pipe dream does have its charms . the leads are natural and lovely , the pace is serene , the humor wry and sprightly . 
those who want to be jolted out of their gourd should drop everything and run to ichi . 
a bittersweet contemporary comedy about benevolent deception , which , while it may not rival the filmmaker's period pieces , is still very much worth seeing . 
 . . . enthusiastically invokes the percussion rhythm , the brass soul and the sense of fierce competition that helps make great marching bands half the fun of college football games . 
sheds light on a subject few are familiar with , and makes you care about music you may not have heard before . 
despite the film's bizarre developments , hoffman keeps us riveted with every painful nuance , unexpected flashes of dark comedy and the character's gripping humanity . 
to get at the root psychology of this film would require many sessions on the couch of dr . freud . 
great over-the-top moviemaking if you're in a slap-happy mood . 
viveka seldahl and sven wollter will touch you to the core in a film you will never forget -- that you should never forget . 
the magic ( and original running time ) of ace japanimator hayao miyazaki's spirited away survives intact in bv's re-voiced version . 
from the dull , surreal ache of mortal awareness emerges a radiant character portrait . 
captures the raw comic energy of one of our most flamboyant female comics . 
it's not particularly subtle . . . however , it still manages to build to a terrifying , if obvious , conclusion . 
the auteur's ear for the way fears and slights are telegraphed in the most blithe exchanges gives the film its lingering tug . 
bolstered by exceptional performances and a clear-eyed take on the economics of dealing and the pathology of ghetto fabulousness . 
this enthralling documentary . . . is at once playful and haunting , an in-depth portrait of an iconoclastic artist who was fundamentally unknowable even to his closest friends . 
some remarkable achival film about how shanghai ( of all places ) served jews who escaped the holocaust . 
in a movie full of surprises , the biggest is that secret ballot is a comedy , both gentle and biting . 
the urban landscapes are detailed down to the signs on the kiosks , and the color palette , with lots of somber blues and pinks , is dreamy and evocative . 
a manically generous christmas vaudeville . 
tony gayton's script doesn't give us anything we haven't seen before , but director d . j . caruso's grimy visual veneer and kilmer's absorbing performance increase the gravitational pull considerably . 
a psychic journey deep into the very fabric of iranian . . . life . 
it's a smartly directed , grown-up film of ideas . 
a true-blue delight . 
while puerile men dominate the story , the women shine . 
unlike lots of hollywood fluff , this has layered , well-developed characters and some surprises . 
for a film that's being advertised as a comedy , sweet home alabama isn't as funny as you'd hoped . for a film that's being advertised as a comedy , sweet home alabama isn't as funny as you'd hoped . 
vera has created a provocative , absorbing drama that reveals the curse of a self-hatred instilled by rigid social mores . 
a french film with a more down-home flavor . 
a fun ride . 
depending upon your reaction to this movie , you may never again be able to look at a red felt sharpie pen without disgust , a thrill , or the giggles . 
while bollywood/hollywood will undoubtedly provide its keenest pleasures to those familiar with bombay musicals , it also has plenty for those ( like me ) who aren't . 
there are times when you wish that the movie had worked a little harder to conceal its contrivances , but brown sugar turns out to be a sweet and enjoyable fantasy . 
fontaine masterfully creates a portrait of two strong men in conflict , inextricably entwined through family history , each seeing himself in the other , neither liking what he sees . 
one fantastic ( and educational ) documentary . 
as janice , eileen walsh , an engaging , wide-eyed actress whose teeth are a little too big for her mouth , infuses the movie with much of its slender , glinting charm . 
sure , it's contrived and predictable , but its performances are so well tuned that the film comes off winningly , even though it's never as solid as you want it to be . 
dong shows how intolerance has the power to deform families , then tear them apart . 
the chateau belongs to rudd , whose portrait of a therapy-dependent flakeball spouting french malapropisms . . . is a nonstop hoot . 
the cast , collectively a successful example of the lovable-loser protagonist , shows deft comic timing . 
it trusts the story it sets out to tell . 
i couldn't recommend this film more . 
as a good old-fashioned adventure for kids , spirit : stallion of the cimarron is a winner . 
an effective portrait of a life in stasis -- of the power of inertia to arrest development in a dead-end existence . 
succeeds as a well-made evocation of a subculture . 
 . . . an interesting slice of history . 
me no lika da accents so good , but i thoroughly enjoyed the love story . scott baio is turning in some delightful work on indie projects . 
it's an experience in understanding a unique culture that is presented with universal appeal . 
what's surprising is how well it holds up in an era in which computer-generated images are the norm . 
brings together some of the biggest names in japanese anime , with impressive results . 
wonder , hope and magic can never escape the heart of the boy when the right movie comes along , especially if it begins with the name of star wars
a flick about our infantilized culture that isn't entirely infantile . 
an exceptionally acted , quietly affecting cop drama . 
sensual , funny and , in the end , very touching . 
angel presents events partly from the perspective of aurelie and christelle , and infuses the film with the sensibility of a particularly nightmarish fairytale . 
who needs mind-bending drugs when they can see this , the final part of the 'qatsi' trilogy , directed by godfrey reggio , with music by philip glass ? 
[a] smarter and much funnier version of the old police academy flicks . 
proof once again that if the filmmakers just follow the books , they can't go wrong . better effects , better acting and a hilarious kenneth branagh . an excellent sequel . 
both a grand tour through 300 hundred years of russian cultural identity and a stunning technical achievement . 
just how these families interact may surprise you . 
allen se atreve a atacar , a atacarse y nos ofrece gags que van de la sonrisa a la risa de larga duracin
proves that some movie formulas don't need messing with -- like the big-bug movie . 
a surprisingly funny movie . 
this new movie version of the alexandre dumas classic is the stuff of high romance , brought off with considerable wit . 
like all of egoyan's work , ararat is fiercely intelligent and uncommonly ambitious . 
if a big musical number like 'praise the lord , he's the god of second chances' doesn't put you off , this will be an enjoyable choice for younger kids . 
 . . . fuses the events of her life with the imagery in her paintings so vividly that the artist's work may take on a striking new significance for anyone who sees the film . 
[clooney's] debut can be accused of being a bit undisciplined , but it has a tremendous , offbeat sense of style and humor that suggests he was influenced by some of the filmmakers who have directed him , especially the coen brothers and steven soderbergh . 
although made on a shoestring and unevenly acted , conjures a lynch-like vision of the rotting underbelly of middle america . 
a piquant meditation on the things that prevent people from reaching happiness . 
a timely look back at civil disobedience , anti-war movements and the power of strong voices . 
rifkin's references are . . . impeccable throughout . 
i'd be lying if i said my ribcage didn't ache by the end of kung pow . 
more than their unique residences , home movie is about the people who live in them , who have carved their own comfortable niche in the world and have been kind enough to share it . 
the movie is ingenious fun . see it . 
the combination of lightness and strictness in this instance gives italian for beginners an amiable aimlessness that keeps it from seeming predictably formulaic . 
una pelcula oscura , precisa , por momentos grandiosa y casi siempre conmovedora . 
the script is smart and dark - hallelujah for small favors . 
an intelligent , multi-layered and profoundly humanist ( not to mention gently political ) meditation on the values of knowledge , education , and the affects of cultural and geographical displacement . 
mr . polanski is in his element here : alone , abandoned , but still consoled by his art , which is more than he has ever revealed before about the source of his spiritual survival . 
spectacular in every sense of the word , even if you don' t know an orc from a uruk-hai . 
this isn't exactly profound cinema , but it's good-natured and sometimes quite funny . 
this is a finely written , superbly acted offbeat thriller . 
tres greek writer and star nia vardalos has crafted here a worldly-wise and very funny script . 
os problemas tm incio a partir do momento em que samos do cinema e come?amos a pensar sobre o que acabamos de ver .  ent?o que sinais realmente desaponta . 
a tasty appetizer that leaves you wanting more . 
it gives devastating testimony to both people's capacity for evil and their heroic capacity for good . 
the film reminds me of a vastly improved germanic version of my big fat greek wedding -- with better characters , some genuine quirkiness and at least a measure of style . the difference is that i truly enjoyed most of mostly martha while i ne
morton deserves an oscar nomination . 
a colorful , vibrant introduction to a universal human impulse , lushly photographed and beautifully recorded . 
the screenplay never lets us forget that bourne was once an amoral assassin just like the ones who are pursuing him . . . there is never really a true " us " versus " them " . 
the history is fascinating ; the action is dazzling . they just don't work in concert . 
for those in search of something different , wendigo is a genuinely bone-chilling tale . 
a lovely film for the holiday season . 
it remains to be seen whether statham can move beyond the crime-land action genre , but then again , who says he has to ? 
a hypnotic cyber hymn and a cruel story of youth culture . 
it's a fairy tale that comes from a renowned indian film culture that allows americans to finally revel in its splendor . 
at once subtle and visceral , the film never succumbs to the trap of the maudlin or tearful , offering instead with its unflinching gaze a measure of faith in the future . 
the performances of the children , untrained in acting , have an honesty and dignity that breaks your heart . 
despite its lavish formalism and intellectual austerity , the film manages to keep you at the edge of your seat with its shape-shifting perils , political intrigue and brushes with calamity . 
this rush to profits has created a predictably efficient piece of business notable largely for its overwhelming creepiness , for an eagerness to create images you wish you hadn't seen , which , in this day and age , is of course the point . 
adams , with four scriptwriters , takes care with the characters , who are so believable that you feel what they feel . 
a completely spooky piece of business that gets under your skin and , some plot blips aside , stays there for the duration . 
superbly photographed and staged by mendes with a series of riveting set pieces the likes of which mainstream audiences have rarely seen . 
the ensemble cast turns in a collectively stellar performance , and the writing is tight and truthful , full of funny situations and honest observations . 
not quite as miraculous as its dreamworks makers would have you believe , but it more than adequately fills the eyes and stirs the emotions . 
a properly spooky film about the power of spirits to influence us whether we believe in them or not . 
the lightest , most breezy movie steven spielberg has made in more than a decade . and the positive change in tone here seems to have recharged him . 
like edward norton in american history x , ryan gosling ( murder by numbers ) delivers a magnetic performance . 
this is a very funny , heartwarming film . it has fun with the quirks of family life , but it also treats the subject with fondness and respect . 
rarely , indeed almost never , is such high-wattage brainpower coupled with pitch-perfect acting and an exquisite , unfakable sense of cinema . 
the leanest and meanest of solondz's misanthropic comedies . 
a dark , quirky road movie that constantly defies expectation . 
there are some movies that hit you from the first scene and you know it's going to be a trip . igby goes down is one of those movies . 
often messy and frustrating , but very pleasing at its best moments , it's very much like life itself . 
a burst of color , music , and dance that only the most practiced curmudgeon could fail to crack a smile at . 
an energetic , violent movie with a momentum that never lets up . 
lasker's canny , meditative script distances sex and love , as byron and luther . . . realize they can't get no satisfaction without the latter . 
it turns out to be smarter and more diabolical than you could have guessed at the beginning . 
cage makes an unusual but pleasantly haunting debut behind the camera . 
noyce has worked wonders with the material . 
it's mostly a pleasure to watch . and the reason for that is a self-aware , often self-mocking , intelligence . 
the chateau is a risky venture that never quite goes where you expect and often surprises you with unexpected comedy . 
a very well-meaning movie , and it will stand in future years as an eloquent memorial to the world trade center tragedy . 
there aren't many conclusive answers in the film , but there is an interesting story of pointed personalities , courage , tragedy and the little guys vs . the big guys . 
vividly demonstrates that the director of such hollywood blockbusters as patriot games can still turn out a small , personal film with an emotional wallop . 
a four star performance from kevin kline who unfortunately works with a two star script . 
dogtown & z-boys evokes the blithe rebel fantasy with the kind of insouciance embedded in the sexy demise of james dean . 
if you don't flee , you might be seduced . if you don't laugh , flee . 
payne constructs a hilarious ode to middle america and middle age with this unlikely odyssey , featuring a pathetic , endearing hero who is all too human . 
koury frighteningly and honestly exposes one teenager's uncomfortable class resentment and , in turn , his self-inflicted retaliation . 
the santa clause 2 proves itself a more streamlined and thought out encounter than the original could ever have hoped to be . 
now as a former gong show addict , i'll admit it , my only complaint is that we didn't get more re-creations of all those famous moments from the show . 
succeeds where its recent predecessor miserably fails because it demands that you suffer the dreadfulness of war from both sides . 
the first bond movie in ages that isn't fake fun . 
this odd , poetic road movie , spiked by jolts of pop music , pretty much takes place in morton's ever-watchful gaze -- and it's a tribute to the actress , and to her inventive director , that the journey is such a mesmerizing one . 
a film centering on a traditional indian wedding in contemporary new delhi may not sound like specialized fare , but mira nair's film is an absolute delight for all audiences . 
a weird and wonderful comedy . 
the movie should jolt you out of your seat a couple of times , give you a few laughs , and leave you feeling like it was worth your seven bucks , even though it does turn out to be a bit of a cheat in the end . 
has the capability of effecting change and inspiring hope . 
a first-class , thoroughly involving b movie that effectively combines two surefire , beloved genres -- the prison flick and the fight film . 
labute's careful handling makes the material seem genuine rather than pandering . 
in between all the emotional seesawing , it's hard to figure the depth of these two literary figures , and even the times in which they lived . but they fascinate in their recklessness . 
death to smoochy is often very funny , but what's even more remarkable is the integrity of devito's misanthropic vision . 
a beautiful , entertaining two hours . you get the idea , though , that kapur intended the film to be more than that . 
a wonderful , ghastly film . 
amid the new populist comedies that underscore the importance of family tradition and familial community , one would be hard-pressed to find a movie with a bigger , fatter heart than barbershop . 
parris' performance is credible and remarkably mature . 
'enigma' is the kind of engaging historical drama that hollywood appears to have given up on in favor of sentimental war movies in the vein of 'we were soldiers . '
munch's screenplay is tenderly observant of his characters . he watches them as they float within the seas of their personalities . his scenes are short and often unexpected . 
it grabs you in the dark and shakes you vigorously for its duration . 
leigh's daring here is that without once denying the hardscrabble lives of people on the economic fringes of margaret thatcher's ruinous legacy , he insists on the importance of those moments when people can connect and express their love for each other . 
hashiguchi vividly captures the way young japanese live now , chafing against their culture's manic mix of millennial brusqueness and undying , traditional politesse . 
uneven but a lot of fun . 
i know that i'll never listen to marvin gaye or the supremes the same way again
the two leads , nearly perfect in their roles , bring a heart and reality that buoy the film , and at times , elevate it to a superior crime movie . 
not as good as the full monty , but a really strong second effort . 
whenever it threatens to get bogged down in earnest dramaturgy , a stirring visual sequence like a surge through swirling rapids or a leap from pinnacle to pinnacle rouses us . if horses could fly , this is surely what they'd look like . 
unfolds as one of the most politically audacious films of recent decades from any country , but especially from france . 
this real-life hollywood fairy-tale is more engaging than the usual fantasies hollywood produces . 
the graphic carnage and re-creation of war-torn croatia is uncomfortably timely , relevant , and sickeningly real . 
left me with the visceral sensation of longing , lasting traces of charlotte's web of desire and desperation . 
the characters are more deeply thought through than in most 'right-thinking' films . 
crammed with incident , and bristles with passion and energy . 
it's fun , splashy and entertainingly nasty . 
a simple tale of an unlikely friendship , but thanks to the gorgeous locales and exceptional lead performances , it has considerable charm . 
it might be 'easier' to watch on video at home , but that shouldn't stop die-hard french film connoisseurs from going out and enjoying the big-screen experience . 
there's very little sense to what's going on here , but the makers serve up the cliches with considerable dash . 
witty , contemplative , and sublimely beautiful . 
a surprisingly 'solid' achievement by director malcolm d . lee and writer john ridley . 
woven together handsomely , recalling sixties' rockumentary milestones from lonely boy to don't look back . 
this is pure , exciting moviemaking . you won't exactly know what's happening but you'll be blissfully exhausted . 
the 1960s rebellion was misdirected : you can't fight your culture . 
works because reno doesn't become smug or sanctimonious towards the audience . 
nettelbeck . . . has a pleasing way with a metaphor . 
a pure participatory event that malnourished intellectuals will gulp down in a frenzy . 
the cast delivers without sham the raw-nerved story . 
steven soderbergh's digital video experiment is a clever and cutting , quick and dirty look at modern living and movie life . 
the film's highlight is definitely its screenplay , both for the rhapsodic dialogue that jumps off the page , and for the memorable character creations . 
it lets you brush up against the humanity of a psycho , without making him any less psycho . 
sillier , cuter , and shorter than the first ( as best i remember ) , but still a very good time at the cinema . 
the film is bright and flashy in all the right ways . 
elegant and eloquent [meditation] on death and that most elusive of passions , love . 
cut through the layers of soap-opera emotion and you find a scathing portrayal of a powerful entity strangling the life out of the people who want to believe in it the most . 
filmmaker tian zhuangzhuang triumphantly returns to narrative filmmaking with a visually masterful work of quiet power . 
it excels because , unlike so many other hollywood movies of its ilk , it offers hope . 
shot in rich , shadowy black-and-white , devils chronicles , with increasingly amused irony , the relationship between reluctant captors and befuddled captives . 
there's no clear picture of who killed bob crane . but here's a glimpse at his life . 
spectacularly beautiful , not to mention mysterious , sensual , emotionally intense , and replete with virtuoso throat-singing . 
weird . rewarding . 
a summer entertainment adults can see without feeling embarrassed , but it could have been more . 
sparse but oddly compelling . 
a stirring , funny and finally transporting re-imagining of beauty and the beast and 1930s horror films
the pinochet case is a searing album of remembrance from those who , having survived , suffered most . 
a sweet-tempered comedy that forgoes the knee-jerk misogyny that passes for humor in so many teenage comedies . 
argento , at only 26 , brings a youthful , out-to-change-the-world aggressiveness to the project , as if she's cut open a vein and bled the raw film stock . 
sleek and arty . 
with so many bad romances out there , this is the kind of movie that deserves a chance to shine . 
brash , intelligent and erotically perplexing , haneke's portrait of an upper class austrian society and the suppression of its tucked away demons is uniquely felt with a sardonic jolt . 
though jackson doesn't always succeed in integrating the characters in the foreground into the extraordinarily rich landscape , it must be said that he is an imaginative filmmaker who can see the forest for the trees . 
 " the quiet american " begins in saigon in 1952 . that's its first sign of trouble . 
a dazzling thing to behold -- as long as you're wearing the somewhat cumbersome 3d goggles the theater provides . 
be patient with the lovely hush ! and your reward will be a thoughtful , emotional movie experience . 
the large-format film is well suited to capture these musicians in full regalia and the incredible imax sound system lets you feel the beat down to your toes . 
godard has never made a more sheerly beautiful film than this unexpectedly moving meditation on love , history , memory , resistance and artistic transcendence . 
the kind of movie that comes along only occasionally , one so unconventional , gutsy and perfectly executed it takes your breath away . 
unlike most surf movies , blue crush thrillingly uses modern technology to take the viewer inside the wave . by the end you can't help but feel 'stoked . '
the off-center humor is a constant , and the ensemble gives it a buoyant delivery . 
a tasty slice of droll whimsy . 
mike leigh populates his movie with a wonderful ensemble cast of characters that bring the routine day to day struggles of the working class to life
awesome work : ineffable , elusive , yet inexplicably powerful
sparkling , often hilarious romantic jealousy comedy . . . attal looks so much like a young robert deniro that it seems the film should instead be called 'my husband is travis bickle' . 
even if you're an agnostic carnivore , you can enjoy much of jonah simply , and gratefully , as laugh-out-loud lunacy with a pronounced monty pythonesque flavor . 
where bowling for columbine is at its most valuable is in its examination of america's culture of fear as a root cause of gun violence . 
the result is somewhat satisfying -- it still comes from spielberg , who has never made anything that wasn't at least watchable . but it's also disappointing to a certain degree . 
the all-french cast is marveilleux . 
there's a lot to recommend read my lips . 
a minor film with major pleasures from portuguese master manoel de oliviera . . . 
brosnan gives a portrayal as solid and as perfect as his outstanding performance as bond in die another day . 
audiences are advised to sit near the back and squint to avoid noticing some truly egregious lip-non-synching , but otherwise the production is suitably elegant . 
the movie is . . . very funny as you peek at it through the fingers in front of your eyes . 
nicks sustains the level of exaggerated , stylized humor throughout by taking your expectations and twisting them just a bit . 
a refreshing change from the usual whoopee-cushion effort aimed at the youth market . 
it finds its moviegoing pleasures in the tiny events that could make a person who has lived her life half-asleep suddenly wake up and take notice . 
 . . . an enjoyably frothy 'date movie' . . . 
the genius of the work speaks volumes , offering up a hallucinatory dreamscape that frustrates and captivates . 
two weeks notice has appeal beyond being a sandra bullock vehicle or a standard romantic comedy . 
the movie's seams may show . . . but pellington gives " mothman " an irresistibly uncanny ambience that goes a long way toward keeping the picture compelling . 
if mostly martha is mostly unsurprising , it's still a sweet , even delectable diversion . 
a wild comedy that could only spring from the demented mind of the writer of being john malkovich . 
schnitzler does a fine job contrasting the sleekness of the film's present with the playful paranoia of the film's past . 
'a fresh-faced , big-hearted and frequently funny thrill ride for the kiddies , with enough eye candy and cheeky wit to keep parents away from the concession stand . '
mana gives us compelling , damaged characters who we want to help -- or hurt . 
the sentimental script has problems , but the actors pick up the slack . 
a good documentary can make interesting a subject you thought would leave you cold . a case in point : doug pray's scratch . 
abderrahmane sissako's heremakono ( waiting for happiness ) is an elegiac portrait of a transit city on the west african coast struggling against foreign influences . 
in xxx , diesel is that rare creature -- an action hero with table manners , and one who proves that elegance is more than tattoo deep . 
an engrossing and grim portrait of hookers : what they think of themselves and their clients . 
it all plays out . . . like a high-end john hughes comedy , a kind of elder bueller's time out . 
the film is enriched by an imaginatively mixed cast of antic spirits , headed by christopher plummer as the subtlest and most complexly evil uncle ralph i've ever seen in the many film and stage adaptations of the work . 
this is one of the rarest kinds of films : a family-oriented non-disney film that is actually funny without hitting below the belt . 
it is refreshingly undogmatic about its characters . 
a moving and important film . 
deep intelligence and a warm , enveloping affection breathe out of every frame . 
famuyiwa's feature deals with its subject matter in a tasteful , intelligent manner , rather than forcing us to endure every plot contrivance that the clich-riddled genre can offer . 
showtime is a fine-looking film with a bouncy score and a clutch of lively songs for deft punctuation . 
sweet home alabama isn't going to win any academy awards , but this date-night diversion will definitely win some hearts . 
a cruelly funny twist on teen comedy packed with inventive cinematic tricks and an ironically killer soundtrack
a gracious , eloquent film that by its end offers a ray of hope to the refugees able to look ahead and resist living in a past forever lost . 
even though many of these guys are less than adorable ( their lamentations are pretty much self-centered ) , there's something vital about the movie . 
a tour de force drama about the astonishingly pivotal role of imagination in the soulful development of two rowdy teenagers . 
it is a strength of a documentary to disregard available bias , especially as temptingly easy as it would have been with this premise . 
when twentysomething hotsies make movies about their lives , hard-driving narcissism is a given , but what a world we'd live in if argento's hollywood counterparts . . . had this much imagination and nerve . 
maryam is more timely now than ever . 
an eloquent , reflective and beautifully acted meditation on both the profoundly devastating events of one year ago and the slow , painful healing process that has followed in their wake . 
piccoli gives a superb performance full of deep feeling . 
what a concept , what an idea , what a thrill ride . this is a more fascinating look at the future than " bladerunner " and one of the most high-concept sci fi adventures attempted for the screen . 
the rare movie that's as crisp and to the point as the novel on which it's based . 
a film of epic scale with an intimate feeling , a saga of the ups and downs of friendships . 
sayles has an eye for the ways people of different ethnicities talk to and about others outside the group . 
 " nicholas nickleby " is a perfect family film to take everyone to since there's no new " a christmas carol " out in the theaters this year . charlie hunnam has the twinkling eyes , repressed smile and determined face needed to carry out a dickensian hero . 
niccol the filmmaker merges his collaborators' symbolic images with his words , insinuating , for example , that in hollywood , only god speaks to the press
khouri manages , with terrific flair , to keep the extremes of screwball farce and blood-curdling family intensity on one continuum . 
impresses as a skillfully assembled , highly polished and professional adaptation . . . just about as chilling and unsettling as 'manhunter' was . 
it's a solid movie about people whose lives are anything but . 
though a touch too arthouse 101 in its poetic symbolism , heaven proves to be a good match of the sensibilities of two directors . 
i simply can't recommend it enough . 
wiseman reveals the victims of domestic abuse in all of their pity and terror . 
muccino , who directed from his own screenplay , is a canny crowd pleaser , and the last kiss . . . provides more than enough sentimental catharsis for a satisfying evening at the multiplex . 
we want the funk - and this movie's got it . 
wow , so who knew charles dickens could be so light-hearted ? 
many went to see the attraction for the sole reason that it was hot outside and there was air conditioning inside , and i don't think that a . c . will help this movie one bit . 
sem se preocupar em criar momentos melodramticos para arrancar lgrimas do espectador , o pianista  um filme triste sem que , para isso , precise ser emocionante . 
the storylines are woven together skilfully , the magnificent swooping aerial shots are breathtaking , and the overall experience is awesome . 
a miraculous movie , i'm going home is so slight , yet overflows with wisdom and emotion . 
baran is shockingly devoid of your typical majid majidi shoe-loving , crippled children . 
an ambitious 'what if ? ' that works . 
every moment crackles with tension , and by the end of the flick , you're on the edge of your seat . 
a fine , rousing , g-rated family film , aimed mainly at little kids but with plenty of entertainment value to keep grown-ups from squirming in their seats . 
the series' message about making the right choice in the face of tempting alternatives remains prominent , as do the girls' amusing personalities . 
richly entertaining and suggestive of any number of metaphorical readings . 
a compelling allegory about the last days of germany's democratic weimar republic . 
offers a guilt-free trip into feel-good territory . 
a b-movie you can sit through , enjoy on a certain level and then forget . 
devos delivers a perfect performance that captures the innocence and budding demons within a wallflower . 
disappointingly , the characters are too strange and dysfunctional , tom included , to ever get under the skin , but this is compensated in large part by the off-the-wall dialogue , visual playfulness and the outlandishness of the idea itself . 
director todd solondz has made a movie about critical reaction to his two previous movies , and about his responsibility to the characters that he creates . 
the word that comes to mind , while watching eric rohmer's tribute to a courageous scottish lady , is painterly . 
a fascinating case study of flower-power liberation -- and the price that was paid for it . 
bluer than the atlantic and more biologically detailed than an autopsy , the movie . . . is , also , frequently hilarious . 
really is a pan-american movie , with moments of genuine insight into the urban heart . 
obligada para impotentes , daneses , camareras italianas , profesores de idiomas , y todo aquel que desee una lengua para expresar su amor . 
an overly familiar scenario is made fresh by an intelligent screenplay and gripping performances in this low-budget , video-shot , debut indie effort . 
peppering this urban study with references to norwegian folktales , villeneuve creates in maelstrom a world where the bizarre is credible and the real turns magical . 
ong's promising debut is a warm and well-told tale of one recent chinese immigrant's experiences in new york city . 
fantastic ! 
that the real antwone fisher was able to overcome his personal obstacles and become a good man is a wonderful thing ; that he has been able to share his story so compellingly with us is a minor miracle . 
there's not much to fatale , outside of its stylish surprises . . . but that's ok . 
what redeems the film is the cast , particularly the ya-yas themselves . 
beautiful , cold , oddly colorful and just plain otherworldly , a freaky bit of art that's there to scare while we delight in the images . 
it's up to [watts] to lend credibility to this strange scenario , and her presence succeeds in making us believe . 
the film is darkly atmospheric , with herrmann quietly suggesting the sadness and obsession beneath hearst's forced avuncular chortles . 
shyamalan takes a potentially trite and overused concept ( aliens come to earth ) and infuses it into a rustic , realistic , and altogether creepy tale of hidden invasion . 
 . . . the story , like ravel's bolero , builds to a crescendo that encompasses many more paths than we started with . 
it's plotless , shapeless -- and yet , it must be admitted , not entirely humorless . indeed , the more outrageous bits achieve a shock-you-into-laughter intensity of almost dadaist proportions . 
gondry's direction is adequate . . . but what gives human nature its unique feel is kaufman's script . 
the film's plot may be shallow , but you've never seen the deep like you see it in these harrowing surf shots . 
with a large cast representing a broad cross-section , tavernier's film bounds along with the rat-a-tat energy of " his girl friday , " maintaining a light touch while tackling serious themes . 
the observations of this social/economic/urban environment are canny and spiced with irony . 
renner carries much of the film with a creepy and dead-on performance . 
jarecki and gibney do find enough material to bring kissinger's record into question and explain how the diplomat's tweaked version of statecraft may have cost thousands and possibly millions of lives . 
the spaniel-eyed jean reno infuses hubert with a mixture of deadpan cool , wry humor and just the measure of tenderness required to give this comic slugfest some heart . 
aniston has at last decisively broken with her friends image in an independent film of satiric fire and emotional turmoil . 
a mildly enjoyable if toothless adaptation of a much better book . 
 " the dangerous lives of altar boys " has flaws , but it also has humor and heart and very talented young actors
unexpected , and often contradictory , truths emerge . 
300 years of russian history and culture compressed into an evanescent , seamless and sumptuous stream of consciousness . 
intelligent , caustic take on a great writer and dubious human being . 
may take its sweet time to get wherever it's going , but if you have the patience for it , you won't feel like it's wasted yours . 
less the sensational true-crime hell-jaunt purists might like and more experimental in its storytelling ( though no less horrifying for it ) . 
the film is one of the year's best . 
eerily accurate depiction of depression . 
 . . . a delicious crime drama on par with the slickest of mamet . 
charming and witty , it's also somewhat clumsy . 
directed with purpose and finesse by england's roger mitchell , who handily makes the move from pleasing , relatively lightweight commercial fare such as notting hill to commercial fare with real thematic heft . 
escapes the precious trappings of most romantic comedies , infusing into the story very real , complicated emotions . 
this big screen caper has a good bark , far from being a bow-wow . 
[allen] manages to breathe life into this somewhat tired premise . 
i have two words to say about reign of fire . great dragons ! 
by surrounding us with hyper-artificiality , haynes makes us see familiar issues , like racism and homophobia , in a fresh way . 
a deliberative account of a lifestyle characterized by its surface-obsession  one that typifies the delirium of post , pre , and extant stardom . 
superb production values & christian bale's charisma make up for a derivative plot . 
the film has the courage of its convictions and excellent performances on its side . 
i know i shouldn't have laughed , but hey , those farts got to my inner nine-year-old . 
a movie that will thrill you , touch you and make you laugh as well . 
it's a smart , funny look at an arcane area of popular culture , and if it isn't entirely persuasive , it does give exposure to some talented performers . 
more vaudeville show than well-constructed narrative , but on those terms it's inoffensive and actually rather sweet . 
the case is a convincing one , and should give anyone with a conscience reason to pause . 
the actresses find their own rhythm and protect each other from the script's bad ideas and awkwardness . 
diverting french comedy in which a husband has to cope with the pesky moods of jealousy . 
captivates and shows how a skillful filmmaker can impart a message without bludgeoning the audience over the head . 
there is a welcome lack of pretension about the film , which very simply sets out to entertain and ends up delivering in good measure . 
coy but exhilarating , with really solid performances by ving rhames and wesley snipes . 
it is a likable story , told with competence . 
not only does spider-man deliver , but i suspect it might deliver again and again . 
tackles the difficult subject of grief and loss with such life-embracing spirit that the theme doesn't drag an audience down . 
a small movie with a big impact . 
the movie , despite its rough edges and a tendency to sag in certain places , is wry and engrossing . 
 i admire the closing scenes of the film , which seem to ask whether our civilization offers a cure for vincent's complaint . 
like rudy yellow lodge , eyre needs to take a good sweat to clarify his cinematic vision before his next creation and remember the lessons of the trickster spider . 
a delightful romantic comedy with plenty of bite . it's far from a frothy piece , and the characters are complex , laden with plenty of baggage and tinged with tragic undertones . 
using an endearing cast , writer/director dover kosashvili takes a slightly dark look at relationships , both sexual and kindred . 
when a movie has stuck around for this long , you know there's something there . it's that good . 
smart , sassy interpretation of the oscar wilde play . 
forget about one oscar nomination for julianne moore this year - she should get all five . 
japanese director shohei imamura's latest film is an odd but ultimately satisfying blend of the sophomoric and the sublime . 
kwan is a master of shadow , quietude , and room noise , and lan yu is a disarmingly lived-in movie . 
while the plot follows a predictable connect-the-dots course . . . director john schultz colors the picture in some evocative shades . 
nice piece of work . 
katz's documentary doesn't have much panache , but with material this rich it doesn't need it . 
we get an image of big papa spanning history , rather than suspending it . 
evelyn's strong cast and surehanded direction make for a winning , heartwarming yarn . 
'aunque recurre a ciertos clichs del gnero , la poderosa actuacin de robin williams perdona las fallas del guin . '
a conventional but heartwarming tale . 
a thought-provoking picture . 
this is one of the outstanding thrillers of recent years . 
skins has a desolate air , but eyre , a native american raised by white parents , manages to infuse the rocky path to sibling reconciliation with flashes of warmth and gentle humor . 
a film of quiet power . 
more concerned with overall feelings , broader ideas , and open-ended questions than concrete story and definitive answers , soderbergh's solaris is a gorgeous and deceptively minimalist cinematic tone poem . 
an intelligent romantic thriller of a very old-school kind of quality . 
the sword fighting is well done and auteuil is a goofy pleasure . 
yes , mibii is rote work and predictable , but with a philosophical visual coming right at the end that extravagantly redeems it . 
film can't quite maintain its initial momentum , but remains sporadically funny throughout . 
o fantasma is boldly , confidently orchestrated , aesthetically and sexually , and its impact is deeply and rightly disturbing . 
it's still adam sandler , and it's not little nicky . and for many of us , that's good enough . 
here's yet another cool crime movie that actually manages to bring something new into the mix . 
lee's achievement extends to his supple understanding of the role that brown played in american culture as an athlete , a movie star , and an image of black indomitability . 
kaufman and jonze take huge risks to ponder the whole notion of passion -- our desire as human beings for passion in our lives and the emptiness one feels when it is missing . 
it tends to remind one of a really solid woody allen film , with its excellent use of new york locales and sharp writing
while centered on the life experiences of a particular theatrical family , this marvelous documentary touches -- ever so gracefully -- on the entire history of the yiddish theater , both in america and israel . 
the film , despite the gratuitous cinematic distractions impressed upon it , is still good fun . 
the immersive powers of the giant screen and its hyper-realistic images are put to perfect use in the breathtakingly beautiful outer-space documentary space station 3d . 
has an unmistakable , easy joie de vivre . 
more than anything else , kissing jessica stein injects freshness and spirit into the romantic comedy genre , which has been held hostage by generic scripts that seek to remake sleepless in seattle again and again . 
this movie has the usual impossible stunts . . . but it has just as many scenes that are lean and tough enough to fit in any modern action movie . 
mostly works because of the universal themes , earnest performances . . . and excellent use of music by india's popular gulzar and jagjit singh . 
 . . . the one thing this wild film has that other imax films don't : chimps , lots of chimps , all blown up to the size of a house . that's fun for kids of any age . 
writer/director david caesar ladles on the local flavour with a hugely enjoyable film about changing times , clashing cultures and the pleasures of a well-made pizza . 
rarely have i seen a film so willing to champion the fallibility of the human heart . 
holofcener rejects patent solutions to dramatize life's messiness from inside out , in all its strange quirks . 
like the full monty , this is sure to raise audience's spirits and leave them singing long after the credits roll . 
 . . . a gleefully grungy , hilariously wicked black comedy . . . 
kinnear and dafoe give what may be the performances of their careers . 
all in all , a great party . 
a moving story of determination and the human spirit . 
 " brown sugar " admirably aspires to be more than another " best man " clone by weaving a theme throughout this funny film . 
[gulpilil] is a commanding screen presence , and his character's abundant humanism makes him the film's moral compass . 
a stylish thriller . 
an effortlessly accomplished and richly resonant work . 
in some ways , lagaan is quintessential bollywood . except it's much , much better . 
though it never rises to its full potential as a film , still offers a great deal of insight into the female condition and the timeless danger of emotions repressed . 
scotland looks wonderful , the fans are often funny fanatics , the showdown sure beats a bad day of golf . 
what enlivens this film , beyond the astute direction of cardoso and beautifully detailed performances by all of the actors , is a note of defiance over social dictates . 
the emotion is impressively true for being so hot-blooded , and both leads are up to the task . 
although it lacks the detail of the book , the film does pack some serious suspense . 
i'd watch these two together again in a new york minute . 
there's nothing like love to give a movie a b-12 shot , and cq shimmers with it . 
a moving essay about the specter of death , especially suicide . 
this film is so different from the apple and so striking that it can only encourage us to see samira makhmalbaf as a very distinctive sensibility , working to develop her own film language with conspicuous success . 
like a less dizzily gorgeous companion to mr . wong's in the mood for love -- very much a hong kong movie despite its mainland setting . 
 . . . a somber film , almost completely unrelieved by any comedy beyond the wistful everyday ironies of the working poor . 
coral reef adventure is a heavyweight film that fights a good fight on behalf of the world's endangered reefs -- and it lets the pictures do the punching . 
the overall result is an intelligent , realistic portrayal of testing boundaries . 
poignant and moving , a walk to remember is an inspirational love story , capturing the innocence and idealism of that first encounter . 
worth a salute just for trying to be more complex than your average film . 
handsome and sophisticated approach to the workplace romantic comedy . 
a shimmeringly lovely coming-of-age portrait , shot in artful , watery tones of blue , green and brown . 
while cherish doesn't completely survive its tonal transformation from dark comedy to suspense thriller , it's got just enough charm and appealing character quirks to forgive that still serious problem . 
in many ways , reminiscent of 1992's unforgiven which also utilized the scintillating force of its actors to draw out the menace of its sparse dialogue . 
we admire this film for its harsh objectivity and refusal to seek our tears , our sympathies . 
an often watchable , though goofy and lurid , blast of a costume drama set in the late 15th century . 
the entire cast is first-rate , especially sorvino . 
the cat's meow marks a return to form for director peter bogdanovich . . . 
this one is strictly a lightweight escapist film . 
this sensitive , smart , savvy , compelling coming-of-age drama delves into the passive-aggressive psychology of co-dependence and the struggle for self-esteem . 
the culmination of everyone's efforts is given life when a selection appears in its final form [in " last dance " ] . 
in questioning the election process , payami graphically illustrates the problems of fledgling democracies , but also the strength and sense of freedom the iranian people already possess , with or without access to the ballot box . 
a very charming and funny movie . 
this is a film that manages to find greatness in the hue of its drastic iconography . 
streamlined to a tight , brisk 85-minute screwball thriller , " big trouble " is funny , harmless and as substantial as a tub of popcorn with extra butter . 
consummate actor barry has done excellent work here . 
the biggest problem with this movie is that it's not nearly long enough . 
while not all that bad of a movie , it's nowhere near as good as the original . 
ali's graduation from little screen to big is far less painful than his opening scene encounter with an over-amorous terrier . 
i have always appreciated a smartly written motion picture , and , whatever flaws igby goes down may possess , it is undeniably that . 
you can sip your vintage wines and watch your merchant ivory productions ; i'll settle for a nice cool glass of iced tea and a jerry bruckheimer flick any day of the week . 
may be the most undeserving victim of critical overkill since town and country . 
a chilly , brooding but quietly resonant psychological study of domestic tension and unhappiness . 
the movie does its best to work us over , with second helpings of love , romance , tragedy , false dawns , real dawns , comic relief , two separate crises during marriage ceremonies , and the lush scenery of the cotswolds . 
cold , nervy and memorable . 
becomes a fascinating study of isolation and frustration that successfully recreates both the physical setting and emotional tensions of the papin sisters . 
spend your benjamins on a matinee . 
all in all , it's a pretty good execution of a story that's a lot richer than the ones hollywood action screenwriters usually come up with on their own . 
worth seeing just for weaver and lapaglia . 
a pleasant piece of escapist entertainment . 
among the many pleasures are the lively intelligence of the artists and their perceptiveness about their own situations . 
it's consistently funny , in an irresistible junior-high way , and consistently free of any gag that would force you to give it a millisecond of thought . 
it's the cute frissons of discovery and humor between chaplin and kidman that keep this nicely wound clock not just ticking , but humming . 
the storytelling may be ordinary , but the cast is one of those all-star reunions that fans of gosford park have come to assume is just another day of brit cinema . 
there's something about a marching band that gets me where i live . 
cuaron repeatedly , perversely undercuts the joie de vivre even as he creates it , giving the movie a mournful undercurrent that places the good-time shenanigans in welcome perspective . 
it's definitely an improvement on the first blade , since it doesn't take itself so deadly seriously . 
a slam-bang extravaganza that is all about a wild-and-woolly , wall-to-wall good time . 
what's infuriating about full frontal is that it's too close to real life to make sense . what's invigorating about it is that it doesn't give a damn . 
is red dragon worthy of a place alongside the other hannibal movies ? as hannibal would say , yes , 'it's like having an old friend for dinner' . 
writer-director juan carlos fresnadillo makes a feature debut that is fully formed and remarkably assured . 
insightfully written , delicately performed
perhaps the grossest movie ever made . funny , though . 
this 90-minute postmodern voyage was more diverting and thought-provoking than i'd expected it to be . 
one of those exceedingly rare films in which the talk alone is enough to keep us involved . 
a heartbreakingly thoughtful minor classic , the work of a genuine and singular artist . 
an affectionately goofy satire that's unafraid to throw elbows when necessary . . . 
between them , de niro and murphy make showtime the most savory and hilarious guilty pleasure of many a recent movie season . 
jackson tries to keep the plates spinning as best he can , but all the bouncing back and forth can't help but become a bit tedious -- even with the breathtaking landscapes and villainous varmints there to distract you from the ricocheting . 
filmmakers david weissman and bill weber benefit enormously from the cockettes' camera craziness -- not only did they film performances , but they did the same at home . 
interesting both as a historical study and as a tragic love story . 
a stylish but steady , and ultimately very satisfying , piece of character-driven storytelling . 
it picked me up , swung me around , and dropped me back in my seat with more emotional force than any other recent film . 
graham greene's novel of colonialism and empire is elevated by michael caine's performance as a weary journalist in a changing world . 
though it's equally solipsistic in tone , the movie has enough vitality to justify the notion of creating a screen adaptation of evans' saga of hollywood excess . 
compulsively watchable , no matter how degraded things get . 
delivers roughly equal amounts of beautiful movement and inside information . 
bon apptit ! just like a splendid meal , red dragon satisfies  from its ripe recipe , inspiring ingredients , certified cuisine and palatable presentation . 
the structure is simple , but in its own way , rabbit-proof fence is a quest story as grand as the lord of the rings . 
this charming , thought-provoking new york fest of life and love has its rewards . 
some people march to the beat of a different drum , and if you ever wondered what kind of houses those people live in , this documentary takes a look at 5 alternative housing options . 
playfully profound . . . and crazier than michael jackson on the top floor of a skyscraper nursery surrounded by open windows . 
a film that will enthrall the whole family . 
the charm of the first movie is still there , and the story feels like the logical , unforced continuation of the careers of a pair of spy kids . 
k 19 stays afloat as decent drama/action flick
it sends you away a believer again and quite cheered at just that . 
like the best 60 minutes expos , the film ( at 80 minutes ) is actually quite entertaining . 
an 83 minute document of a project which started in a muddle , seesawed back and forth between controlling interests multiple times , then found its sweet spot
an emotionally and spiritually compelling journey seen through the right eyes , with the right actors and with the kind of visual flair that shows what great cinema can really do . 
nair doesn't use [monsoon wedding] to lament the loss of culture . instead , she sees it as a chance to revitalize what is and always has been remarkable about clung-to traditions . 
both grant and hoult carry the movie because they are believable as people -- flawed , assured of the wrong things , and scared to admit how much they may really need the company of others . 
leading a double life in an american film only comes to no good , but not here . matters play out realistically if not always fairly . 
in the affable maid in manhattan , jennifer lopez's most aggressive and most sincere attempt to take movies by storm , the diva shrewdly surrounds herself with a company of strictly a-list players . 
like mike is a harmlessly na?ve slice of b-ball fantasy , fit for filling in during the real nba's off-season . 
though writer/director bart freundlich's film ultimately becomes a simplistic story about a dysfunctional parent-child relationship , it has some special qualities and the soulful gravity of crudup's anchoring performance . 
y tu mam tambin es un buen filme gracias a lo poco convencional de su narrativa , y es quiz el proyecto ms arriesgado en la carrera de alfonso cuarn
what the movie lacks in action it more than makes up for in drama , suspense , revenge , and romance . 
just offbeat enough to keep you interested without coming close to bowling you over . 
probes in a light-hearted way the romantic problems of individuals for whom the yearning for passion spells discontent . 
what elevates the movie above the run-of-the-mill singles blender is its surreal sense of humor and technological finish . 
a film about female friendship that men can embrace and women will talk about for hours . 
the directing and story are disjointed , flaws that have to be laid squarely on taylor's doorstep . but the actors make this worth a peek . 
 uma pena que , mais tarde , o prprio filme abandone o tom de pardia e passe a utilizar os mesmos clichs que havia satirizado . 
light the candles , bring out the cake and don't fret about the calories because there's precious little substance in birthday girl -- it's simply , and surprisingly , a nice , light treat . 
it may be about drug dealers , kidnapping , and unsavory folks , but the tone and pacing are shockingly intimate . 
massoud's story is an epic , but also a tragedy , the record of a tenacious , humane fighter who was also the prisoner ( and ultimately the victim ) of history . 
if villainous vampires are your cup of blood , blade 2 is definitely a cut above the rest . 
drumline ably captures the complicated relationships in a marching band . 
because the film deliberately lacks irony , it has a genuine dramatic impact ; it plays like a powerful 1957 drama we've somehow never seen before . 
does point the way for adventurous indian filmmakers toward a crossover into nonethnic markets . 
seems based on ugly ideas instead of ugly behavior , as happiness was . . . hence , storytelling is far more appealing . 
sum " is jack ryan's " do-over . " give credit to everyone from robinson down to the key grip that this bold move works . especially give credit to affleck . 
an intelligently made ( and beautifully edited ) picture that at the very least has a spark of life to it -- more than you can say for plenty of movies that flow through the hollywood pipeline without a hitch . 
a terrific date movie , whatever your orientation . 
not all of the stories work and the ones that do are thin and scattered , but the film works well enough to make it worth watching . 
what it lacks in originality it makes up for in effective if cheap moments of fright and dread . 
the pain , loneliness and insecurity of the screenwriting process are vividly and painfully brought to slovenly life in this self-deprecating , biting and witty feature written by charlie kaufman and his twin brother , donald , and directed by spike jonze . 
a gem of a movie . 
witty , vibrant , and intelligent . 
it's all stitched together with energy , intelligence and verve , enhanced by a surplus of vintage archive footage . 
miller comes at film with bracing intelligence and a vision both painterly and literary . 
the film is moody , oozing , chilling and heart-warming all at once . . . a twisting , unpredictable , cat-and-mouse thriller . 
eight legged freaks is clever and funny , is amused by its special effects , and leaves you feeling like you've seen a movie instead of an endless trailer . 
this is historical filmmaking without the balm of right-thinking ideology , either liberal or conservative . mr . scorsese's bravery and integrity in advancing this vision can hardly be underestimated . 
a thriller whose style , structure and rhythms are so integrated with the story , you cannot separate them . 
it's a hoot watching the rock chomp on jumbo ants , pull an arrow out of his back , and leap unscathed through raging fire ! 
returning director rob minkoff . . . and screenwriter bruce joel rubin . . . have done a fine job of updating white's dry wit to a new age . 
unfolds with such a wallop of you-are-there immediacy that when the bullets start to fly , your first instinct is to duck . 
a strong script , powerful direction and splendid production design allows us to be transported into the life of wladyslaw szpilman , who is not only a pianist , but a good human being . 
an unflinching look at the world's dispossessed . 
if the film fails to fulfill its own ambitious goals , it nonetheless sustains interest during the long build-up of expository material . 
polanski has found the perfect material with which to address his own world war ii experience in his signature style . 
it is life affirming and heartbreaking , sweet without the decay factor , funny and sad . 
an off-beat and fanciful film about the human need for monsters to blame for all that is amiss in the world . 
a colorful , joyous celebration of life ; a tapestry woven of romance , dancing , singing , and unforgettable characters . 
frei assembles a fascinating profile of a deeply humanistic artist who , in spite of all that he's witnessed , remains surprisingly idealistic , and retains an extraordinary faith in the ability of images to communicate the truth of the world around him . 
nicely combines the enigmatic features of 'memento' with the hallucinatory drug culture of 'requiem for a dream . '
a well paced and satisfying little drama that deserved better than a direct-to-video' release . 
the best part about " gangs " was daniel day-lewis . 
a treat for its depiction on not giving up on dreams when you're a struggling nobody . 
one of those rare films that seems as though it was written for no one , but somehow manages to convince almost everyone that it was put on the screen , just for them . 
a gripping documentary that reveals how deep the antagonism lies in war-torn jerusalem . 
director chris wedge and screenwriters michael berg , michael j . wilson and peter ackerman create some episodes that rival vintage looney tunes for the most creative mayhem in a brief amount of time . 
one of the film's most effective aspects is its tchaikovsky soundtrack of neurasthenic regret . 
solondz creates some effective moments of discomfort for character and viewer alike . 
the film's appeal has a lot to do with the casting of juliette binoche as sand , who brings to the role her pale , dark beauty and characteristic warmth . 
i was amused and entertained by the unfolding of bielinsky's cleverly constructed scenario , and greatly impressed by the skill of the actors involved in the enterprise . 
somehow ms . griffiths and mr . pryce bring off this wild welsh whimsy . 
more mature than fatal attraction , more complete than indecent proposal and more relevant than 9 ? weeks , unfaithful is at once intimate and universal cinema . 
for all the dolorous trim , secretary is a genial romance that maintains a surprisingly buoyant tone throughout , notwithstanding some of the writers' sporadic dips into pop freudianism . 
a fanciful drama about napoleon's last years and his surprising discovery of love and humility . 
a highly personal look at the effects of living a dysfunctionally privileged lifestyle , and by the end , we only wish we could have spent more time in its world . 
eric schweig and graham greene both exude an air of dignity that's perfect for the proud warrior that still lingers in the souls of these characters . 
lovely and amazing is holofcener's deep , uncompromising curtsy to women she knows , and very likely is . when all is said and done , she loves them to pieces -- and so , i trust , will you . 
campbell scott finds the ideal outlet for his flick-knife diction in the role of roger swanson . 
[fiji diver rusi vulakoro and the married couple howard and michelle hall] show us the world they love and make us love it , too . 
russian ark is a new treasure of the hermitage . 
the animated sequences are well done and perfectly constructed to convey a sense of childhood imagination and creating adventure out of angst . 
it's definitely a step in the right direction . 
as the princess , sorvino glides gracefully from male persona to female without missing a beat . ben kingsley is truly funny , playing a kind of ghandi gone bad . 
ourside the theatre roger might be intolerable company , but inside it he's well worth spending some time with . 
a gem , captured in the unhurried , low-key style favored by many directors of the iranian new wave . 
in an era where big stars and high production values are standard procedure , narc strikes a defiantly retro chord , and outpaces its contemporaries with daring and verve . 
almost peerlessly unsettling . 
ranges from laugh-out-loud hilarious to wonder-what- time-it-is tedious . 
the film's gamble to occasionally break up the live-action scenes with animated sequences pays off , as does its sensitive handling of some delicate subject matter . 
talk to her is not the perfect movie many have made it out to be , but it's still quite worth seeing . 
beating the austin powers films at their own game , this blaxploitation spoof downplays the raunch in favor of gags that rely on the strength of their own cleverness as opposed to the extent of their outrageousness . 
this is a dark , gritty , sometimes funny little gem . 
for all its visual panache and compelling supporting characters , the heart of the film rests in the relationship between sullivan and his son . 
what makes salton sea surprisingly engrossing is that caruso takes an atypically hypnotic approach to a world that's often handled in fast-edit , hopped-up fashion . 
a hidden-agenda drama that shouts classic french nuance . 
with spy kids 2 : the island of lost dreams , the spy kids franchise establishes itself as a durable part of the movie landscape : a james bond series for kids . 
an invaluable historical document thanks to the filmmaker's extraordinary access to massoud , whose charm , cultivation and devotion to his people are readily apparent . 
the performances of the four main actresses bring their characters to life . a little melodramatic , but with enough hope to keep you engaged . 
lan yu seems altogether too slight to be called any kind of masterpiece . it is , however , a completely honest , open-hearted film that should appeal to anyone willing to succumb to it . 
everyone should be able to appreciate the wonderful cinematography and naturalistic acting . 
this often-hilarious farce manages to generate the belly laughs of lowbrow comedy without sacrificing its high-minded appeal . 
stock up on silver bullets for director neil marshall's intense freight train of a film . 
expands the limits of what a film can be , taking us into the lives of women to whom we might not give a second look if we passed them on the street . 
the farcical elements seemed too pat and familiar to hold my interest , yet its diverting grim message is a good one . 
shanghai ghetto may not be as dramatic as roman polanski's the pianist , but its compassionate spirit soars every bit as high . 
despite these annoyances , the capable clayburgh and tambor really do a great job of anchoring the characters in the emotional realities of middle age . 
the underworld urban angst is derivative of martin scorsese's taxi driver and goodfellas , but this film speaks for itself . 
the film's heady yet far from impenetrable theory suggests that russians take comfort in their closed-off nationalist reality . 
despite modest aspirations its occasional charms are not to be dismissed . 
constantly touching , surprisingly funny , semi-surrealist exploration of the creative act . 
the journey is worth your time , especially if you have ellen pompeo sitting next to you for the ride . 
merci pour le movie . 
for every cheesy scene , though , there is a really cool bit -- the movie's conception of a future-world holographic librarian ( orlando jones ) who knows everything and answers all questions , is visually smart , cleverly written , and nicely realized . 
what sets ms . birot's film apart from others in the genre is a greater attention to the parents -- and particularly the fateful fathers -- in the emotional evolution of the two bewitched adolescents . 
all three women deliver remarkable performances . 
claire is a terrific role for someone like judd , who really ought to be playing villains . 
it's clear that mehta simply wanted to update her beloved genre for the thousands of indians who fancy themselves too sophisticated for the cheese-laced spectacles that pack 'em in on the subcontinent . 
compassionately explores the seemingly irreconcilable situation between conservative christian parents and their estranged gay and lesbian children . 
the soundtrack alone is worth the price of admission . 
rodriguez does a splendid job of racial profiling hollywood style--casting excellent latin actors of all ages--a trend long overdue . 
beneath the film's obvious determination to shock at any cost lies considerable skill and determination , backed by sheer nerve . 
bielinsky is a filmmaker of impressive talent . 
so beautifully acted and directed , it's clear that washington most certainly has a new career ahead of him if he so chooses . 
a visual spectacle full of stunning images and effects . 
a gentle and engrossing character study . 
it's enough to watch huppert scheming , with her small , intelligent eyes as steady as any noir villain , and to enjoy the perfectly pitched web of tension that chabrol spins . 
an engrossing portrait of uncompromising artists trying to create something original against the backdrop of a corporate music industry that only seems to care about the bottom line . 
a mischievous visual style and oodles of charm make 'cherish' a very good ( but not great ) movie . 
just as the recent argentine film son of the bride reminded us that a feel-good movie can still show real heart , time of favor presents us with an action movie that actually has a brain . 
[a] strong piece of work . 
a stirring tribute to the bravery and dedication of the world's reporters who willingly walk into the nightmare of war not only to record the events for posterity , but to help us clearly see the world of our making . 
the importance of being earnest , so thick with wit it plays like a reading from bartlett's familiar quotations
daring and beautifully made . 
made for teens and reviewed as such , this is recommended only for those under 20 years of age . . . and then only as a very mild rental . 
imagine o . henry's <b>the gift of the magi</b> relocated to the scuzzy underbelly of nyc's drug scene . merry friggin' christmas ! 
the film does give a pretty good overall picture of the situation in laramie following the murder of matthew shepard . 
both lead performances are oscar-size . quaid is utterly fearless as the tortured husband living a painful lie , and moore wonderfully underplays the long-suffering heroine with an unflappable '50s dignity somewhere between jane wyman and june cleaver . 
ferrara's best film in years . 
a remarkably insightful look at the backstage angst of the stand-up comic . 
nothing short of wonderful with its ten-year-old female protagonist and its steadfast refusal to set up a dualistic battle between good and evil . 
davis' candid , archly funny and deeply authentic take on intimate relationships comes to fruition in her sophomore effort . 
it's more enjoyable than i expected , though , and that's because the laughs come from fairly basic comedic constructs . cinematic pratfalls given a working over . the cast is spot on and the mood is laid back . 
matches neorealism's impact by showing the humanity of a war-torn land filled with people who just want to live their lives . 
those moviegoers who would automatically bypass a hip-hop documentary should give " scratch " a second look . 
baby-faced renner is eerily convincing as this bland blank of a man with unimaginable demons within . 
romantic , riveting and handsomely animated . 
a competent , unpretentious entertainment destined to fill the after-school slot at shopping mall theaters across the country . 
shot largely in small rooms , the film has a gentle , unforced intimacy that never becomes claustrophobic . 
where janice beard falters in its recycled aspects , implausibility , and sags in pace , it rises in its courageousness , and comedic employment . 
byler is too savvy a filmmaker to let this morph into a typical romantic triangle . instead , he focuses on the anguish that can develop when one mulls leaving the familiar to traverse uncharted ground . 
mcgrath has deftly trimmed dickens' wonderfully sprawling soap opera , the better to focus on the hero's odyssey from cowering poverty to courage and happiness . 
a chance to see three splendid actors turn a larky chase movie into an emotionally satisfying exploration of the very human need to be somebody , and to belong to somebody . 
metaphors abound , but it is easy to take this film at face value and enjoy its slightly humorous and tender story . 
as directed by dani kouyate of burkina faso , sia lacks visual flair . but kouyate elicits strong performances from his cast , and he delivers a powerful commentary on how governments lie , no matter who runs them . 
the best comedy concert movie i've seen since cho's previous concert comedy film , i'm the one that i want , in 2000 . 
broomfield reminds us that beneath the hype , the celebrity , the high life , the conspiracies and the mystery there were once a couple of bright young men -- promising , talented , charismatic and tragically doomed . 
offers laughs and insight into one of the toughest ages a kid can go through . 
a perceptive , good-natured movie . 
an amused indictment of jaglom's own profession . 
a small movie with a big heart . 
hugely accomplished slice of hitchcockian suspense . 
the formula is familiar but enjoyable . 
tells a fascinating , compelling story . 
a triumph , a film that hews out a world and carries us effortlessly from darkness to light . 
what begins as a conventional thriller evolves into a gorgeously atmospheric meditation on life-changing chance encounters . 
the lady and the duke is a smart , romantic drama that dares to depict the french revolution from the aristocrats' perspective . 
most haunting about " fence " is its conclusion , when we hear the ultimate fate of these girls and realize , much to our dismay , that this really did happen . noyce's greatest mistake is thinking that we needed sweeping , dramatic , hollywood moments to keep us
world traveler might not go anywhere new , or arrive anyplace special , but it's certainly an honest attempt to get at something . 
there's much tongue in cheek in the film and there's no doubt the filmmaker is having fun with it all . 
there's absolutely no reason why blue crush , a late-summer surfer girl entry , should be as entertaining as it is
an action/thriller of the finest kind , evoking memories of day of the jackal , the french connection , and heat . 
the best movie in many a moon about the passions that sometimes fuel our best achievements and other times leave us stranded with nothing more than our lesser appetites . 
in capturing the understated comedic agony of an ever-ruminating , genteel yet decadent aristocracy that can no longer pay its bills , the film could just as well be addressing the turn of the 20th century into the 21st . 
insomnia does not become one of those rare remakes to eclipse the original , but it doesn't disgrace it , either . 
classic cinema served up with heart and humor
[stephen] earnhart's film is more about the optimism of a group of people who are struggling to give themselves a better lot in life than the ones they currently have . 
the events of the film are just so weird that i honestly never knew what the hell was coming next . 
nicole holofcener's lovely and amazing , from her own screenplay , jumps to the head of the class of women's films that manage to avoid the ghetto of sentimental chick-flicks by treating female follies with a satirical style . 
that jack nicholson makes this man so watchable is a tribute not only to his craft , but to his legend . 
has a solid emotional impact . 
successfully blended satire , high camp and yet another sexual taboo into a really funny movie . 
mark pellington's latest pop thriller is as kooky and overeager as it is spooky and subtly in love with myth . 
while maintaining the appearance of clinical objectivity , this sad , occasionally horrifying but often inspiring film is among wiseman's warmest . 
raimi crafted a complicated hero who is a welcome relief from the usual two-dimensional offerings . 
an enjoyable above average summer diversion . 
there is simply no doubt that this film asks the right questions at the right time in the history of our country . 
if you've the patience , there are great rewards here . 
as a science fiction movie , " minority report " astounds . 
watching e . t now , in an era dominated by cold , loud special-effects-laden extravaganzas , one is struck less by its lavish grandeur than by its intimacy and precision . 
visually breathtaking , viscerally exciting , and dramatically moving , it's the very definition of epic adventure . 
chris columbus' sequel is faster , livelier and a good deal funnier than his original . 
watching this film , what we feel isn't mainly suspense or excitement . the dominant feeling is something like nostalgia . 
' . . . a great , participatory spectator sport . '
a rather brilliant little cult item : a pastiche of children's entertainment , superhero comics , and japanese animation . 
believes so fervently in humanity that it feels almost anachronistic , and it is too cute by half . but arriving at a particularly dark moment in history , it offers flickering reminders of the ties that bind us . 
adam sandler ! in an art film ! 
as averse as i usually am to feel-good , follow-your-dream hollywood fantasies , this one got to me . 
stone seems to have a knack for wrapping the theater in a cold blanket of urban desperation . 
 . . . a funny yet dark and seedy clash of cultures and generations . 
the hook is the drama within the drama , as an unsolved murder and an unresolved moral conflict jockey for the spotlight . 
over the years , hollywood has crafted a solid formula for successful animated movies , and ice age only improves on it , with terrific computer graphics , inventive action sequences and a droll sense of humor . 
like smoke signals , the film is also imbued with strong themes of familial ties and spirituality that are powerful and moving without stooping to base melodrama
one of those movies that make us pause and think of what we have given up to acquire the fast-paced contemporary society . 
one of the most original american productions this year , you'll find yourself remembering this refreshing visit to a sunshine state . 
melds derivative elements into something that is often quite rich and exciting , and always a beauty to behold . 
gives everyone something to shout about . 
the entire movie has a truncated feeling , but what's available is lovely and lovable . 
[a] thoughtful , visually graceful work . 
admirers of director abel ferrara may be relieved that his latest feature , r xmas , marks a modest if encouraging return to form . 
the slam-bang superheroics are kinetic enough to engross even the most antsy youngsters . 
a worthy addition to the cinematic canon , which , at last count , numbered 52 different versions . 
deliciously mean-spirited and wryly observant . 
the kind of primal storytelling that george lucas can only dream of . 
even if the ring has a familiar ring , it's still unusually crafty and intelligent for hollywood horror . 
the sheer joy and pride they took in their work -- and in each other -- shines through every frame . 
a solidly constructed , entertaining thriller that stops short of true inspiration . 
the cast . . . keeps this pretty watchable , and casting mick jagger as director of the escort service was inspired . 
an entertaining , if somewhat standardized , action movie . 
it has a dashing and resourceful hero ; a lisping , reptilian villain ; big fights ; big hair ; lavish period scenery ; and a story just complicated enough to let you bask in your own cleverness as you figure it out . 
an enjoyable comedy of lingual and cultural differences the chateau is a film -- full of life and small delights -- that has all the wiggling energy of young kitten . 
intriguing and downright intoxicating . 
an incredibly thoughtful , deeply meditative picture that neatly and effectively captures the debilitating grief felt in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks . 
with an obvious rapport with her actors and a striking style behind the camera , hlne angel is definitely a director to watch . 
 . . . could easily be called the best korean film of 2002 . 
full of detail about the man and his country , and is well worth seeing . 
the banter between calvin and his fellow barbers feels like a streetwise mclaughlin group . . . and never fails to entertain . 
thoroughly engrossing and ultimately tragic . 
peter jackson and company once again dazzle and delight us , fulfilling practically every expectation either a longtime tolkien fan or a movie-going neophyte could want . 
bill morrison's decasia is uncompromising , difficult and unbearably beautiful . 
full of bland hotels , highways , parking lots , with some glimpses of nature and family warmth , time out is a discreet moan of despair about entrapment in the maze of modern life . 
even with all its botches , enigma offers all the pleasure of a handsome and well-made entertainment . 
his work transcends the boy-meets-girl posturing of typical love stories . 
if the real-life story is genuinely inspirational , the movie stirs us as well . 
an ebullient tunisian film about the startling transformation of a tradition-bound widow who is drawn into the exotic world of belly dancing . 
the dramatic crisis doesn't always succeed in its quest to be taken seriously , but huppert's volatile performance makes for a riveting movie experience . 
highly irritating at first , mr . koury's passive technique eventually begins to yield some interesting results . 
about schmidt belongs to nicholson . gone are the flamboyant mannerisms that are the trademark of several of his performances . as schmidt , nicholson walks with a slow , deliberate gait , chooses his words carefully and subdues his natural exuberance . 
the powder blues and sun-splashed whites of tunis make an alluring backdrop for this sensuous and spirited tale of a prim widow who finds an unlikely release in belly-dancing clubs . 
it doesn't make for great cinema , but it is interesting to see where one's imagination will lead when given the opportunity . 
it's sobering , particularly if anyone still thinks this conflict can be resolved easily , or soon . 
if it's not entirely memorable , the movie is certainly easy to watch . 
 . . . by the time it's done with us , mira nair's new movie has its audience giddy with the delight of discovery , of having been immersed in a foreign culture only to find that human nature is pretty much the same all over . 
best indie of the year , so far . 
[ferrera] has the charisma of a young woman who knows how to hold the screen . 
 . . . the plot weaves us into a complex web . 
don't judge this one too soon - it's a dark , gritty story but it takes off in totally unexpected directions and keeps on going . 
it's funny , as the old saying goes , because it's true . 
in death to smoochy , we don't get williams' usual tear and a smile , just sneers and bile , and the spectacle is nothing short of refreshing . 
a serviceable euro-trash action extravaganza , with a decent sense of humor and plenty of things that go boom  handguns , bmws and seaside chateaus . 
fortunately , elling never gets too cloying thanks to the actors' perfect comic timing and sweet , genuine chemistry . 
if you've grown tired of going where no man has gone before , but several movies have - take heart . this is the best star trek movie in a long time . 
greg kinnear gives a mesmerizing performance as a full-fledged sex addict who is in complete denial about his obsessive behavior . 
not only a coming-of-age story and cautionary parable , but also a perfectly rendered period piece . 
ou've got to love a disney pic with as little cleavage as this one has , and a heroine as feisty and principled as jane . 
a funny , triumphant , and moving documentary . 
delirious fun . 
lathan and diggs carry the film with their charisma , and both exhibit sharp comic timing that makes the more hackneyed elements of the film easier to digest . 
about schmidt is nicholson's goofy , heartfelt , mesmerizing king lear . 
a confluence of kiddie entertainment , sophisticated wit and symbolic graphic design . 
gay or straight , kissing jessica stein is one of the greatest date movies in years . 
this is a movie full of grace and , ultimately , hope . 
exciting and well-paced . 
even better than the first one ! 
its compelling mix of trial movie , escape movie and unexpected fable ensures the film never feels draggy . 
a must see for all sides of the political spectrum
[reynolds] takes a classic story , casts attractive and talented actors and uses a magnificent landscape to create a feature film that is wickedly fun to watch . 
there are problems with this film that even 3 oscar winners can't overcome , but it's a nice girl-buddy movie once it gets rock-n-rolling . 
rich in atmosphere of the post-war art world , it manages to instruct without reeking of research library dust . 
has the rare capability to soothe and break your heart with a single stroke . 
it rapidly develops into a gut-wrenching examination of the way cultural differences and emotional expectations collide . 
though it flirts with bathos and pathos and the further oprahfication of the world as we know it , it still cuts all the way down to broken bone . 
this humbling little film , fueled by the light comedic work of zhao benshan and the delicate ways of dong jie , is just the sort for those moviegoers who complain that 'they don't make movies like they used to anymore . '
es una de esas pelculas de las que uno sale reconfortado , agradecido , genuinamente sorprendido . 
it will break your heart many times over . 
a straight-shooting family film which awards animals the respect they've rarely been given . 
overall , interesting as a documentary -- but not very imaxy . 
this is one of those war movies that focuses on human interaction rather than battle and action sequences . . . and it's all the stronger because of it . 
secretary " is owned by its costars , spader and gyllenhaal . maggie g . makes an amazing breakthrough in her first starring role and eats up the screen . 
the film fits into a genre that has been overexposed , redolent of a thousand cliches , and yet remains uniquely itself , vibrant with originality . 
not only is it a charming , funny and beautifully crafted import , it uses very little dialogue , making it relatively effortless to read and follow the action at the same time . 
'almodvar logra un filme entra?able , lleno de compasin , comprensin , amor , amistad , esperanza y humanidad que es sencillamente inolvidable . '
the kind of sense of humor that derives from a workman's grasp of pun and entendre and its attendant need to constantly draw attention to itself . 
too much of storytelling moves away from solondz's social critique , casting its audience as that of intellectual lector in contemplation of the auteur's professional injuries . 
the story is virtually impossible to follow here , but there's a certain style and wit to the dialogue . 
the music makes a nice album , the food is enticing and italy beckons us all . 
the film is an earnest try at beachcombing verismo , but it would be even more indistinct than it is were it not for the striking , quietly vulnerable personality of ms . ambrose . 
the film is small in scope , yet perfectly formed . 
jones has delivered a solidly entertaining and moving family drama . 
happy times maintains an appealing veneer without becoming too cute about it . 
oliveira seems to pursue silent film representation with every mournful composition . 
one of the pleasures in walter's documentary . . . is the parade of veteran painters , confounded dealers , and miscellaneous bohos who expound upon the subject's mysterious personality without ever explaining him . 
captures all the longing , anguish and ache , the confusing sexual messages and the wish to be a part of that elusive adult world . 
he's the scariest guy you'll see all summer . 
 " frailty " offers chills much like those that you get when sitting around a campfire around midnight , telling creepy stories to give each other the willies . and , there's no way you won't be talking about the film once you exit the theater . 
really quite funny . 
if i have to choose between gorgeous animation and a lame story ( like , say , treasure planet ) or so-so animation and an exciting , clever story with a batch of appealing characters , i'll take the latter every time . 
quiet , adult and just about more stately than any contemporary movie this year . . . a true study , a film with a questioning heart and mind that isn't afraid to admit it doesn't have all the answers . 
in the end , the film is less the cheap thriller you'd expect than it is a fairly revealing study of its two main characters  damaged-goods people whose orbits will inevitably and dangerously collide . 
some of the visual flourishes are a little too obvious , but restrained and subtle storytelling , and fine performances make this delicate coming-of-age tale a treat . 
it is hard not to be especially grateful for freedom after a film like this . 
the dirty jokes provide the funniest moments in this oddly sweet comedy about jokester highway patrolmen . 
y tu mam tambin is hilariously , gloriously alive , and quite often hotter than georgia asphalt . 
 . . . works on some levels and is certainly worth seeing at least once . 
you come away from his film overwhelmed , hopeful and , perhaps paradoxically , illuminated . 
if the material is slight and admittedly manipulative , jacquot preserves tosca's intoxicating ardor through his use of the camera . 
thirteen conversations about one thing lays out a narrative puzzle that interweaves individual stories , and , like a mobius strip , elliptically loops back to where it began . 
overall , it's a wacky and inspired little film that works effortlessly at delivering genuine , acerbic laughs . 
mais um momento inspirado de david fincher . 
a must for fans of british cinema , if only because so many titans of the industry are along for the ride . 
tsai has managed to create an underplayed melodrama about family dynamics and dysfunction that harks back to the spare , unchecked heartache of yasujiro ozu . 
until ( the ) superfluous . . . epilogue that leaks suspension of disbelief like a sieve , die another day is as stimulating & heart-rate-raising as any james bond thriller . 
it's a good film , but it falls short of its aspiration to be a true 'epic' . 
all the pieces fall together without much surprise , but little moments give it a boost . 
the beauty of alexander payne's ode to the everyman is in the details . 
a touching drama about old age and grief with a tour de force performance by michel piccoli . 
the ending feels at odds with the rest of the film . 
a tone of rueful compassion . . . reverberates throughout this film , whose meaning and impact is sadly heightened by current world events . 
a beautiful paean to a time long past . 
dense and thoughtful and brimming with ideas that are too complex to be rapidly absorbed . 
if you thought tom hanks was just an ordinary big-screen star , wait until you've seen him eight stories tall . 
with this masterful , flawless film , [wang] emerges in the front ranks of china's now numerous , world-renowned filmmakers . 
shyamalan offers copious hints along the way -- myriad signs , if you will -- that beneath the familiar , funny surface is a far bigger , far more meaningful story than one in which little green men come to earth for harvesting purposes . 
this film is an act of spiritual faith -- an eloquent , deeply felt meditation on the nature of compassion . 
a different kind of love story - one that is dark , disturbing , painful to watch , yet compelling . 
splendidly illustrates the ability of the human spirit to overcome adversity . 
a compelling , gut-clutching piece of advocacy cinema that carries you along in a torrent of emotion as it explores the awful complications of one terrifying day . 
she's as rude and profane as ever , always hilarious and , most of the time , absolutely right in her stinging social observations . 
to those who have not read the book , the film is a much better mother-daughter tale than last summer's 'divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood , ' but that's not saying much . 
even before it builds up to its insanely staged ballroom scene , in which 3000 actors appear in full regalia , it's waltzed itself into the art film pantheon . 
a thoughtful , reverent portrait of what is essentially a subculture , with its own rules regarding love and family , governance and hierarchy . 
it seems impossible that an epic four-hour indian musical about a cricket game could be this good , but it is . 
will certainly appeal to asian cult cinema fans and asiaphiles interested to see what all the fuss is about . 
touches smartly and wistfully on a number of themes , not least the notion that the marginal members of society . . . might benefit from a helping hand and a friendly kick in the pants . 
a wildly entertaining scan of evans' career . 
a mature , deeply felt fantasy of a director's travel through 300 years of russian history . 
boldly engineering a collision between tawdry b-movie flamboyance and grandiose spiritual anomie , rose's film , true to its source material , provides a tenacious demonstration of death as the great equalizer . 
a finely tuned mood piece , a model of menacing atmosphere . 
the salton sea has moments of inspired humour , though every scrap is of the darkest variety . 
both a beautifully made nature film and a tribute to a woman whose passion for this region and its inhabitants still shines in her quiet blue eyes . 
although shot with little style , skins is heartfelt and achingly real . 
harks back to a time when movies had more to do with imagination than market research . 
upsetting and thought-provoking , the film has an odd purity that doesn't bring you into the characters so much as it has you study them . 
a well-executed spy-thriller . 
a very pretty after-school special . it's an effort to watch this movie , but it eventually pays off and is effective if you stick with it . 
a harrowing account of a psychological breakdown . 
continually challenges perceptions of guilt and innocence , of good guys and bad , and asks us whether a noble end can justify evil means . 
it certainly won't win any awards in the plot department but it sets out with no pretensions and delivers big time . 
dog soldiers doesn't transcend genre -- it embraces it , energizes it and takes big bloody chomps out of it . 
at once emotional and richly analytical , the cosby-seinfeld encounter alone confirms the serious weight behind this superficially loose , larky documentary . 
it may scream low budget , but this charmer has a spirit that cannot be denied . 
'alice's adventure through the looking glass and into zombie-land' is filled with strange and wonderful creatures . 
without [de niro] , city by the sea would slip under the waves . he drags it back , single-handed . 
a good music documentary , probably one of the best since the last waltz . 
if the plot seems a bit on the skinny side , that's because panic room is interested in nothing more than sucking you inand making you sweat . 
 . . . [the film] works , due mostly to the tongue-in-cheek attitude of the screenplay . 
the film becomes an overwhelming pleasure , and you find yourself rooting for gai's character to avoid the fate that has befallen every other carmen before her . 
broomfield has a rather unique approach to documentary . he thinks the film is just as much a document about him as it is about the subject . 
at its best when the guarded , resentful betty and the manipulative yet needy margot are front and center . 
gloriously straight from the vagina . 
it's excessively quirky and a little underconfident in its delivery , but otherwise this is the best 'old neighborhood' project since christopher walken kinda romanced cyndi lauper in the opportunists . 
the film oozes craft . 
robinson's web of suspense matches the page-turning frenzy that clancy creates . 
manages to be both hugely entertaining and uplifting . 
a classic fairy tale that perfectly captures the wonders and worries of childhood in a way that few movies have ever approached . 
it's the unsettling images of a war-ravaged land that prove more potent and riveting than the unlikely story of sarah and harrison . 
a wonderfully warm human drama that remains vividly in memory long after viewing
jaunty fun , with its celeb-strewn backdrop well used . 
recoing's fantastic performance doesn't exactly reveal what makes vincent tick , but perhaps any definitive explanation for it would have felt like a cheat . 
washington overcomes the script's flaws and envelops the audience in his character's anguish , anger and frustration . 
the film fearlessly gets under the skin of the people involved . . . this makes it not only a detailed historical document , but an engaging and moving portrait of a subculture . 
a searing , epic treatment of a nationwide blight that seems to be , horrifyingly , ever on the rise . 
not a film for the faint of heart or conservative of spirit , but for the rest of us -- especially san francisco lovers -- it's a spirited film and a must-see . 
read my lips is to be viewed and treasured for its extraordinary intelligence and originality as well as its lyrical variations on the game of love . 
the color sense of stuart little 2 is its most immediate and most obvious pleasure , but it would count for very little if the movie weren't as beautifully shaped and as delicately calibrated in tone as it is . 
while [roman coppola] scores points for style , he staggers in terms of story . 
idiotic and ugly . 
any movie that makes hard work seem heroic deserves a look . 
it may not be a huge cut of above the rest , but i enjoyed barbershop . it's a funny little movie with clever dialogue and likeable characters . 
a different and emotionally reserved type of survival story -- a film less about refracting all of world war ii through the specific conditions of one man , and more about that man lost in its midst . 
it's sweet , funny , charming , and completely delightful . 
a perfectly competent and often imaginative film that lacks what little lilo & stitch had in spades -- charisma . 
beautifully shot against the frozen winter landscapes of grenoble and geneva , the film unfolds with all the mounting tension of an expert thriller , until the tragedy beneath it all gradually reveals itself . 
medem may have disrobed most of the cast , leaving their bodies exposed , but the plot remains as guarded as a virgin with a chastity belt . that's why sex and lucia is so alluring . 
an elegant work , food of love is as consistently engaging as it is revealing . 
although largely a heavy-handed indictment of parental failings and the indifference of spanish social workers and legal system towards child abuse , the film retains ambiguities that make it well worth watching . 
a behind the scenes look at the training and dedication that goes into becoming a world-class fencer and the champion that's made a difference to nyc inner-city youth . 
a brain twister , less a movie-movie than a funny and weird meditation on hollywood , success , artistic integrity and intellectual bankruptcy . 
a powerful , inflammatory film about religion that dares to question an ancient faith , and about hatred that offers no easy , comfortable resolution . 
in its own floundering way , it gets to you . just like igby . 
return to never land may be another shameless attempt by disney to rake in dough from baby boomer families , but it's not half-bad . 
wise and deadpan humorous . 
god bless crudup and his aversion to taking the easy hollywood road and cashing in on his movie-star gorgeousness . 
if signs is a good film , and it is , the essence of a great one is in there somewhere . 
veterans of the dating wars will smirk uneasily at the film's nightmare versions of everyday sex-in-the-city misadventures . 
schrader examines crane's decline with unblinking candor . 
you can watch , giggle and get an adrenaline boost without feeling like you've completely lowered your entertainment standards . 
it thankfully goes easy on the reel/real world dichotomy that [jaglom] pursued with such enervating determination in venice/venice . 
this rich , bittersweet israeli documentary , about the life of song-and-dance-man pasach'ke burstein and his family , transcends ethnic lines . 
sensitively examines general issues of race and justice among the poor , and specifically raises serious questions about the death penalty and asks what good the execution of a mentally challenged woman could possibly do . 
cool gadgets and creatures keep this fresh . not as good as the original , but what is . . . 
presents a side of contemporary chinese life that many outsiders will be surprised to know exists , and does so with an artistry that also smacks of revelation . 
[jeff's] gorgeous , fluid compositions , underlined by neil finn and edmund mcwilliams's melancholy music , are charged with metaphor , but rarely easy , obvious or self-indulgent . 
engages us in constant fits of laughter , until we find ourselves surprised at how much we care about the story , and end up walking out not only satisfied but also somewhat touched . 
a bilingual charmer , just like the woman who inspired it
blisteringly rude , scarily funny , sorrowfully sympathetic to the damage it surveys , the film has in kieran culkin a pitch-perfect holden . 
apuestas fuertes para el futuro del director , y apuestas bien fundadas , pues la suerte ya la tiene , y la cinta lo comprueba . . . . 
the fourth " pokemon " is a diverting--if predictable--adventure suitable for a matinee , with a message that cautions children about disturbing the world's delicate ecological balance . 
what one is left with , even after the most awful acts are committed , is an overwhelming sadness that feels as if it has made its way into your very bloodstream . 
[it] has the feel of a summer popcorn movie . nothing too deep or substantial . explosions , jokes , and sexual innuendoes abound . 
miyazaki's nonstop images are so stunning , and his imagination so vivid , that the only possible complaint you could have about spirited away is that there is no rest period , no timeout . 
 . . . a delightfully unpredictable , hilarious comedy with wonderful performances that tug at your heart in ways that utterly transcend gender labels . 
assured , vital and well wrought , the film is , arguably , the most accomplished work to date from hong kong's versatile stanley kwan . 
delia , greta , and paula rank as three of the most multilayered and sympathetic female characters of the year . as each of them searches for their place in the world , miller digs into their very minds to find an unblinking , flawed humanity . 
a surprisingly sweet and gentle comedy . 
shanghai ghetto , much stranger than any fiction , brings this unknown slice of history affectingly to life . 
it's not particularly well made , but since i found myself howling more than cringing , i'd say the film works . 
but this is lohman's film . her performance moves between heartbreak and rebellion as she continually tries to accommodate to fit in and gain the unconditional love she seeks . 
though its story is only surface deep , the visuals and enveloping sounds of blue crush make this surprisingly decent flick worth a summertime look-see . 
ryosuke has created a wry , winning , if languidly paced , meditation on the meaning and value of family . 
sometimes charming , sometimes infuriating , this argentinean 'dramedy' succeeds mainly on the shoulders of its actors . 
you may feel compelled to watch the film twice or pick up a book on the subject . 
often shocking but ultimately worthwhile exploration of motherhood and desperate mothers . 
a venturesome , beautifully realized psychological mood piece that reveals its first-time feature director's understanding of the expressive power of the camera . 
like the rugrats movies , the wild thornberrys movie doesn't offer much more than the series , but its emphasis on caring for animals and respecting other cultures is particularly welcome . 
taken outside the context of the current political climate ( see : terrorists are more evil than ever ! ) , the sum of all fears is simply a well-made and satisfying thriller . 
the setting is so cool that it chills the characters , reducing our emotional stake in the outcome of " intacto's " dangerous and seductively stylish game . 
a lovely and beautifully photographed romance . 
one of the most splendid entertainments to emerge from the french film industry in years . 
its vision of that awkward age when sex threatens to overwhelm everything else is acute enough to make everyone who has been there squirm with recognition . 
for almost the first two-thirds of martin scorsese's 168-minute gangs of new york , i was entranced . 
open-ended and composed of layer upon layer , talk to her is a cinephile's feast , an invitation to countless interpretations . 
one of the most slyly exquisite anti-adult movies ever made . 
what makes esther kahn so demanding is that it progresses in such a low-key manner that it risks monotony . but it's worth the concentration . 
neither the funniest film that eddie murphy nor robert de niro has ever made , showtime is nevertheless efficiently amusing for a good while . before it collapses into exactly the kind of buddy cop comedy it set out to lampoon , anyway . 
a clever script and skilled actors bring new energy to the familiar topic of office politics . 
the determination of pinochet's victims to seek justice , and their often heartbreaking testimony , spoken directly into director patricio guzman's camera , pack a powerful emotional wallop . 
disney aficionados will notice distinct parallels between this story and the 1971 musical " bedknobs and broomsticks , " which also dealt with british children rediscovering the power of fantasy during wartime . 
it's . . . worth the extra effort to see an artist , still committed to growth in his ninth decade , change while remaining true to his principles with a film whose very subject is , quite pointedly , about the peril of such efforts . 
dark and unrepentant , this excursion into the epicenter of percolating mental instability is not easily dismissed or forgotten . 
it's a rollicking adventure for you and all your mateys , regardless of their ages . 
boasts a handful of virtuosic set pieces and offers a fair amount of trashy , kinky fun . 
 . . . myers has turned his franchise into the movie version of an adolescent dirty-joke book done up in post-tarantino pop-culture riffs . . . 
if you're down for a silly hack-and-slash flick , you can do no wrong with jason x . 
this is a very ambitious project for a fairly inexperienced filmmaker , but good actors , good poetry and good music help sustain it . 
the modern master of the chase sequence returns with a chase to end all chases
the messy emotions raging throughout this three-hour effort are instantly recognizable , allowing the film to paradoxically feel familiar and foreign at the same time . 
 . . . either you're willing to go with this claustrophobic concept or you're not . 
just watch bettany strut his stuff . you'll know a star when you see one . 
austin powers in goldmember is a cinematic car wreck , a catastrophic collision of tastelessness and gall that nevertheless will leave fans clamoring for another ride . 
you can fire a torpedo through some of clancy's holes , and the scripters don't deserve any oscars . but the nerve-raked acting , the crackle of lines , the impressive stagings of hardware , make for some robust and scary entertainment . 
contrasting the original ringu with the current americanized adaptation is akin to comparing the evil dead with evil dead ii
a small gem of a movie that defies classification and is as thought-provoking as it is funny , scary and sad . 
for a long time the film succeeds with its dark , delicate treatment of these characters and its unerring respect for them . 
it's the kind of effectively creepy-scary thriller that has you fixating on a far corner of the screen at times because your nerves just can't take it any more . 
late marriage is an in-your-face family drama and black comedy that is filled with raw emotions conveying despair and love . 
an ambitious and moving but bleak film . 
it's too harsh to work as a piece of storytelling , but as an intellectual exercise -- an unpleasant debate that's been given the drive of a narrative and that's been acted out -- the believer is nothing less than a provocative piece of work . 
it's sweet . it's funny . it wears its heart on the sleeve of its gaudy hawaiian shirt . and , thanks to the presence of 'the king , ' it also rocks . 
it's never laugh-out-loud funny , but it is frequently amusing . 
a bittersweet film , simple in form but rich with human events . 
the unexplored story opportunities of " punch-drunk love " may have worked against the maker's minimalist intent but it is an interesting exercise by talented writer/director anderson . 
 " punch-drunk love " is a little like a chocolate milk moustache . . . 
 . . . digs beyond the usual portrayals of good kids and bad seeds to reveal a more ambivalent set of characters and motivations . 
the beauty of the piece is that it counts heart as important as humor . 
piercingly affecting . . . while clearly a manipulative film , emerges as powerful rather than cloying . 
very amusing , not the usual route in a thriller , and the performances are odd and pixilated and sometimes both . 
while the frequent allusions to gurus and doshas will strike some westerners as verging on mumbo-jumbo . . . broad streaks of common sense emerge with unimpeachable clarity . 
the cast is phenomenal , especially the women . 
a marvel of production design . 
the byplay and bickering between the now spy-savvy siblings , carmen ( vega ) and juni ( sabara ) cortez , anchor the film in a very real and amusing give-and-take . 
good actors have a radar for juicy roles -- there's a plethora of characters in this picture , and not one of them is flat . 
though in some ways similar to catherine breillat's fat girl , rain is the far superior film . 
is not so much a work of entertainment as it is a unique , well-crafted psychological study of grief . 
remarkable for its excellent storytelling , its economical , compressed characterisations and for its profound humanity , it's an adventure story and history lesson all in one . 
colorful , energetic and sweetly whimsical . . . the rare sequel that's better than its predecessor . 
reno himself can take credit for most of the movie's success . he's one of the few 'cool' actors who never seems aware of his own coolness . 
significantly better than its 2002 children's-movie competition . 
ub equally spoofs and celebrates the more outre aspects of 'black culture' and the dorkier aspects of 'white culture , ' even as it points out how inseparable the two are . 
a lot smarter than your average bond . 
 . . . bright , intelligent , and humanly funny film . 
painful , horrifying and oppressively tragic , this film should not be missed . 
part of the film's cheeky charm comes from its vintage schmaltz . 
so unique and stubborn and charismatic that you want it to be better and more successful than it is . 
i won't argue with anyone who calls 'slackers' dumb , insulting , or childish . . . but i laughed so much that i didn't mind . 
it arrives with an impeccable pedigree , mongrel pep , and almost indecipherable plot complications . 
so fiendishly cunning that even the most jaded cinema audiences will leave the auditorium feeling dizzy , confused , and totally disorientated . not to mention absolutely refreshed . 
a vibrant , colorful , semimusical rendition . 
the film sometimes flags . . . but there is enough secondary action to keep things moving along at a brisk , amusing pace . 
it's a drawling , slobbering , lovable run-on sentence of a film , a southern gothic with the emotional arc of its raw blues soundtrack . 
ns gosta muito de as duas torres . 
nolan proves that he can cross swords with the best of them and helm a more traditionally plotted popcorn thriller while surrendering little of his intellectual rigor or creative composure . 
it is different from others in its genre in that it is does not rely on dumb gags , anatomical humor , or character cliches ; it primarily relies on character to tell its story . 
both a successful adaptation and an enjoyable film in its own right . 
all the filmmakers are asking of us , is to believe in something that is improbable . 
if the very concept makes you nervous . . . you'll have an idea of the film's creepy , scary effectiveness . 
worth a look by those on both sides of the issues , if only for the perspective it offers , one the public rarely sees . 
a mostly believable , refreshingly low-key and quietly inspirational little sports drama . 
may be more genial than ingenious , but it gets the job done . 
a stylish cast and some clever scripting solutions help chicago make the transition from stage to screen with considerable appeal intact . 
exhilarating , funny and fun . 
while not quite " shrek " or monsters , inc . " , it's not too bad . it's worth taking the kids to . 
in the end there is one word that best describes this film : honest . 
writer-director david jacobson and his star , jeremy renner , have made a remarkable film that explores the monster's psychology not in order to excuse him but rather to demonstrate that his pathology evolved from human impulses that grew hideously twisted . 
the action sequences are fun and reminiscent of combat scenes from the star wars series . 
norton is magnetic as graham . 
savvy director robert j . siegel and his co-writers keep the story subtle and us in suspense . 
it pulls the rug out from under you , just when you're ready to hate one character , or really sympathize with another character , something happens to send you off in different direction . 
twenty years after its first release , e . t . remains the most wondrous of all hollywood fantasies -- and the apex of steven spielberg's misunderstood career . 
it says a lot about a filmmaker when he can be wacky without clobbering the audience over the head and still maintain a sense of urgency and suspense . 
gives us a lot to chew on , but not all of it has been properly digested . 
it's an exhilarating place to visit , this laboratory of laughter . 
 " simone " is a fun and funky look into an artificial creation in a world that thrives on artificiality . 
a great companion piece to other napoleon films . 
to some eyes this will seem like a recycling of clichs , an assassin's greatest hits . to others , it will remind them that hong kong action cinema is still alive and kicking . 
gran historia sobre el amor , la familia , la lealtad y la traicin que seguramente se convertir en un nuevo clsico del gnero . 
at the end of the movie , my 6-year-old nephew said , " i guess i come from a broken family , and my uncles are all aliens , too . " congrats disney on a job well done , i enjoyed it just as much ! 
a remarkably alluring film set in the constrictive eisenhower era about one suburban woman's yearning in the face of a loss that shatters her cheery and tranquil suburban life . 
berling and bart . . . continue to impress , and isabelle huppert . . . again shows uncanny skill in getting under the skin of her characters . 
uplifting , funny and wise . 
remarkable for its intelligence and intensity . 
the hypnotic imagery and fragmentary tale explore the connections between place and personal identity . 
brosnan is more feral in this film than i've seen him before and halle berry does her best to keep up with him . 
a film that begins with the everyday lives of naval personnel in san diego and ends with scenes so true and heartbreaking that tears welled up in my eyes both times i saw the film . 
a funny film . 
 " on guard ! " won't be placed in the pantheon of the best of the swashbucklers but it is a whole lot of fun and you get to see the one of the world's best actors , daniel auteuil , have a whale of a good time . 
the movie starts with a legend and ends with a story that is so far-fetched it would be impossible to believe if it weren't true . this is the stuff that disney movies are made of . 
like all great films about a life you never knew existed , it offers much to absorb and even more to think about after the final frame . 
that the e-graveyard holds as many good ideas as bad is the cold comfort that chin's film serves up with style and empathy . 
while we no longer possess the lack-of-attention span that we did at seventeen , we had no trouble sitting for blade ii . 
like a poor man's you can count on me
 . . . a solid , unassuming drama . 
a seriocomic debut of extravagant promise by georgian-israeli director dover kosashvili . 
thanks to ice cube , benjamins feels an awful lot like friday in miami . 
though the film is static , its writer-director's heart is in the right place , his plea for democracy and civic action laudable . 
the real star of this movie is the score , as in the songs translate well to film , and it's really well directed . 
it's rare to find a film to which the adjective 'gentle' applies , but the word perfectly describes pauline & paulette . 
my wife is an actress has its moments in looking at the comic effects of jealousy . in the end , though , it is only mildly amusing when it could have been so much more . 
both garcia and jagger turn in perfectly executed and wonderfully sympathetic characters , who are alternately touching and funny . 
humorous , artsy , and even cute , in an off-kilter , dark , vaguely disturbing way . 
the more you think about the movie , the more you will probably like it . 
 . . . a powerful sequel and one of the best films of the year . 
for the most part , the film does hold up pretty well . 
together [time out and human resources] establish mr . cantet as france's foremost cinematic poet of the workplace . 
the filmmaker's heart is in the right place . . . 
you can take the grandkids or the grandparents and never worry about anyone being bored . . . audience is a sea of constant smiles and frequent laughter . 
like these russo guys lookin' for their mamet instead found their sturges . 
[a] satisfying niblet . 
there has been a string of ensemble cast romances recently . . . but peter mattei's love in the time of money sets itself apart by forming a chain of relationships that come full circle to end on a positive ( if tragic ) note . 
by applying definition to both sides of the man , the picture realizes a fullness that does not negate the subject . 
who is the audience for cletis tout ? anybody who enjoys quirky , fun , popcorn movies with a touch of silliness and a little bloodshed . 
[cuarn has] created a substantive movie out of several cliched movie structures : the road movie , the coming-of-age movie , and the teenage sex comedy . 
puts to rest any thought that the german film industry cannot make a delightful comedy centering on food . 
poetic , heartbreaking . 
witty dialog between realistic characters showing honest emotions . it's touching and tender and proves that even in sorrow you can find humor . like blended shades of lipstick , these components combine into one terrific story with lots of laughs . 
<em>ash wednesday</em> is not edward burns' best film , but it is a good and ambitious film . and it marks him as one of the most interesting writer/directors working today . 
after one gets the feeling that the typical hollywood disregard for historical truth and realism is at work here , it's a matter of finding entertainment in the experiences of zishe and the fiery presence of hanussen . 
the footage of the rappers at play and the prison interview with suge knight are just two of the elements that will grab you . 
 . . . it's as comprehensible as any dummies guide , something even non-techies can enjoy . 
don't wait to see this terrific film with your kids -- if you don't have kids borrow some . 
moretti . . . is the rare common-man artist who's wise enough to recognize that there are few things in this world more complex -- and , as it turns out , more fragile -- than happiness . 
the movie's captivating details are all in the performances , from foreman's barking-mad taylor to thewlis's smoothly sinister freddie and bettany/mcdowell's hard-eyed gangster . 
features fincher's characteristically startling visual style and an almost palpable sense of intensity . 
precocious smarter-than-thou wayward teen struggles to rebel against his oppressive , right-wing , propriety-obsessed family . anyone else seen this before ? 
moore provides an invaluable service by sparking debate and encouraging thought . better still , he does all of this , and more , while remaining one of the most savagely hilarious social critics this side of jonathan swift . 
alternating between facetious comic parody and pulp melodrama , this smart-aleck movie . . . tosses around some intriguing questions about the difference between human and android life . 
a cutesy romantic tale with a twist . 
this is a gorgeous film - vivid with color , music and life . delight your senses and crash this wedding ! 
a brutally dry satire of middle american numbness . 
more sophisticated and literate than such pictures usually are . . . an amusing little catch . 
smith examines the intimate , unguarded moments of folks who live in unusual homes -- which pop up in nearly every corner of the country . 
with an admirably dark first script by brent hanley , paxton , making his directorial feature debut , does strong , measured work . 
a compelling french psychological drama examining the encounter of an aloof father and his chilly son after 20 years apart . 
 . . . even if you've never heard of chaplin , you'll still be glued to the screen . 
you have enough finely tuned acting to compensate for the movie's failings . 
as the dominant christine , sylvie testud is icily brilliant . 
although tender and touching , the movie would have benefited from a little more dramatic tension and some more editing . 
the story that emerges has elements of romance , tragedy and even silent-movie comedy . 
[ " safe conduct " ] is a long movie at 163 minutes but it fills the time with drama , romance , tragedy , bravery , political intrigue , partisans and sabotage . viva le resistance ! 
it offers a glimpse of the solomonic decision facing jewish parents in those turbulent times : to save their children and yet to lose them . 
the film is delicately narrated by martin landau and directed with sensitivity and skill by dana janklowicz-mann . 
martyr gets royally screwed and comes back for more . 
a virtual roller-coaster ride of glamour and sleaze . 
an admirable , sometimes exceptional film
if you like an extreme action-packed film with a hint of humor , then triple x marks the spot . 
from blushing to gushing---imamura squirts the screen in warm water under a red bridge'
if you're the kind of parent who enjoys intentionally introducing your kids to films which will cause loads of irreparable damage that years and years of costly analysis could never fix , i have just one word for you - decasia
may not be a breakthrough in filmmaking , but it is unwavering and arresting . 
the film's images give a backbone to the company and provide an emotional edge to its ultimate demise . 
a bodice-ripper for intellectuals . 
the locations go from stark desert to gorgeous beaches . the story plays out slowly , but the characters are intriguing and realistic . 
count on his movie to work at the back of your neck long after you leave the theater . 
neil burger here succeeded in . . . making the mystery of four decades back the springboard for a more immediate mystery in the present . 
the complex , politically charged tapestry of contemporary chinese life this exciting new filmmaker has brought to the screen is like nothing we westerners have seen before . 
a thriller made from a completist's checklist rather than with a cultist's passion . 
try as you might to scrutinize the ethics of kaufman's approach , somehow it all comes together to create a very compelling , sensitive , intelligent and almost cohesive piece of film entertainment . 
as quiet , patient and tenacious as mr . lopez himself , who approaches his difficult , endless work with remarkable serenity and discipline . 
though the film never veers from its comic course , its unintentional parallels might inadvertently evoke memories and emotions which are anything but humorous . 
evokes the style and flash of the double-cross that made mamet's " house of games " and last fall's " heist " so much fun . 
so original in its base concept that you cannot help but get caught up . 
it may be a no-brainer , but at least it's a funny no-brainer . 
a lot more dimensional and complex than its sunny disposition would lead you to believe . 
jeffs has created a breathtakingly assured and stylish work of spare dialogue and acute expressiveness . 
underachieves only in not taking the shakespeare parallels quite far enough . 
the most audacious , outrageous , sexually explicit , psychologically probing , pure libido film of the year has arrived from portugal . 
the creative animation work may not look as fully 'rendered' as pixar's industry standard , but it uses lighting effects and innovative backgrounds to an equally impressive degree . 
art-house to the core , read my lips is a genre-curling crime story that revives the free-wheeling noir spirit of old french cinema . 
grant is certainly amusing , but the very hollowness of the character he plays keeps him at arms length
conceptually brilliant . . . plays like a living-room war of the worlds , gaining most of its unsettling force from the suggested and the unknown . 
 . . . manages to deliver a fair bit of vampire fun . 
drama of temptation , salvation and good intentions is a thoughtful examination of faith , love and power . 
the strength of the film comes not from any cinematic razzle-dazzle but from its recovery of an historical episode that , in the simple telling , proves simultaneously harrowing and uplifting . 
the performances are strong , though the subject matter demands acting that borders on hammy at times . 
a damn fine and a truly distinctive and a deeply pertinent film . 
still rapturous after all these years , cinema paradiso stands as one of the great films about movie love . 
reggio and glass put on an intoxicating show . 
macdowell . . . gives give a solid , anguished performance that eclipses nearly everything else she's ever done . 
the thing about guys like evans is this : you're never quite sure where self-promotion ends and the truth begins . but as you watch the movie , you're too interested to care . 
i liked a lot of the smaller scenes . 
the film will appeal to discovery channel fans and will surely widen the perspective of those of us who see the continent through rose-colored glasses . 
an eye-boggling blend of psychedelic devices , special effects and backgrounds , 'spy kids 2' is a visual treat for all audiences . 
formuliac , but fun . 
straightforward and old-fashioned in the best possible senses of both those words , possession is a movie that puts itself squarely in the service of the lovers who inhabit it . 
it may . . . work as a jaunt down memory lane for teens and young adults who grew up on televised scooby-doo shows or reruns . 
one of those movies that catches you up in something bigger than yourself , namely , an archetypal desire to enjoy good trash every now and then . 
this harrowing journey into combat hell vividly captures the chaotic insanity and personal tragedies that are all too abundant when human hatred spews forth unchecked . 
far more successful , if considerably less ambitious , than last year's kubrick-meets-spielberg exercise . 
apart from anything else , this is one of the best-sustained ideas i have ever seen on the screen . 
'pocas veces es posible ver un elenco tan compenetrado con la historia , donde todos y cada uno de los actores ofrecen actuaciones verdaderamente memorables . '
elling builds gradually until you feel fully embraced by this gentle comedy . 
a fascinating examination of the joyous , turbulent self-discovery made by a proper , middle-aged woman . 
here is a vh1 behind the music special that has something a little more special behind it : music that didn't sell many records but helped change a nation . 
buy popcorn . take nothing seriously and enjoy the ride . 
carrying off a spot-on scottish burr , duvall ( also a producer ) peels layers from this character that may well not have existed on paper . 
the acting , for the most part , is terrific , although the actors must struggle with the fact that they're playing characters who sometimes feel more like literary conceits than flesh-and-blood humans . 
some body will take you places you haven't been , and also places you have . 
veret has a whip-smart sense of narrative bluffs . 
parts of the film feel a bit too much like an infomercial for ram dass's latest book aimed at the boomer demographic . but mostly it's a work that , with humor , warmth , and intelligence , captures a life interestingly lived . 
were it not for a sentimental resolution that explains way more about cal than does the movie or the character any good , freundlich's world traveler might have been one of the more daring and surprising american movies of the year . 
 " home movie " is the film equivalent of a lovingly rendered coffee table book . 
graphic sex may be what's attracting audiences to unfaithful , but gripping performances by lane and gere are what will keep them awake . 
when compared to the usual , more somber festival entries , davis' highly personal brand of romantic comedy is a tart , smart breath of fresh air that stands out from the pack even if the picture itself is somewhat problematic . 
feels untidily honest . 
both damning and damned compelling . 
much has been written about those years when the psychedelic '60s grooved over into the gay '70s , but words don't really do the era justice . you have to see it . 
even if it pushes its agenda too forcefully , this remains a film about something , one that attempts and often achieves a level of connection and concern . 
what lifts the film high above run-of-the-filth gangster flicks is its refusal to recognise any of the signposts , as if discovering a way through to the bitter end without a map . 
we've seen the hippie-turned-yuppie plot before , but there's an enthusiastic charm in <i ? fire that makes the formula fresh again . 
both an admirable reconstruction of terrible events , and a fitting memorial to the dead of that day , and of the thousands thereafter . 
a sly dissection of the inanities of the contemporary music business and a rather sad story of the difficulties of artistic collaboration . 
the unique niche of self-critical , behind-the-scenes navel-gazing kaufman has carved from orleans' story and his own infinite insecurity is a work of outstanding originality . 
lovingly photographed in the manner of a golden book sprung to life , stuart little 2 manages sweetness largely without stickiness . 
consistently clever and suspenseful . 
it's like a " big chill " reunion of the baader-meinhof gang , only these guys are more harmless pranksters than political activists . 
the story gives ample opportunity for large-scale action and suspense , which director shekhar kapur supplies with tremendous skill . 
red dragon " never cuts corners . 
fresnadillo has something serious to say about the ways in which extravagant chance can distort our perspective and throw us off the path of good sense . 
throws in enough clever and unexpected twists to make the formula feel fresh . 
weighty and ponderous but every bit as filling as the treat of the title . 
a real audience-pleaser that will strike a chord with anyone who's ever waited in a doctor's office , emergency room , hospital bed or insurance company office . 
generates an enormous feeling of empathy for its characters . 
exposing the ways we fool ourselves is one hour photo's real strength . 
it's up to you to decide whether to admire these people's dedication to their cause or be repelled by their dogmatism , manipulativeness and narrow , fearful view of american life . 
mostly , [goldbacher] just lets her complicated characters be unruly , confusing and , through it all , human . 
 . . . quite good at providing some good old fashioned spooks . 
at its worst , the movie is pretty diverting ; the pity is that it rarely achieves its best . 
scherfig's light-hearted profile of emotional desperation is achingly honest and delightfully cheeky . 
a journey spanning nearly three decades of bittersweet camaraderie and history , in which we feel that we truly know what makes holly and marina tick , and our hearts go out to them as both continue to negotiate their imperfect , love-hate relationship . 
the wonderfully lush morvern callar is pure punk existentialism , and ms . ramsay and her co-writer , liana dognini , have dramatized the alan warner novel , which itself felt like an answer to irvine welsh's book trainspotting . 
as it turns out , you can go home again . 
you've already seen city by the sea under a variety of titles , but it's worth yet another visit . 
this kind of hands-on storytelling is ultimately what makes shanghai ghetto move beyond a good , dry , reliable textbook and what allows it to rank with its worthy predecessors . 
making such a tragedy the backdrop to a love story risks trivializing it , though chouraqui no doubt intended the film to affirm love's power to help people endure almost unimaginable horror . 
grown-up quibbles are beside the point here . the little girls understand , and mccracken knows that's all that matters . 
a powerful , chilling , and affecting study of one man's dying fall . 
this is a fascinating film because there is no clear-cut hero and no all-out villain . 
a dreadful day in irish history is given passionate , if somewhat flawed , treatment . 
 . . . a good film that must have baffled the folks in the marketing department . 
 . . . is funny in the way that makes you ache with sadness ( the way chekhov is funny ) , profound without ever being self-important , warm without ever succumbing to sentimentality . 
devotees of star trek ii : the wrath of khan will feel a nagging sense of deja vu , and the grandeur of the best next generation episodes is lacking . 
a soul-stirring documentary about the israeli/palestinian conflict as revealed through the eyes of some children who remain curious about each other against all odds . 
what's so striking about jolie's performance is that she never lets her character become a caricature -- not even with that radioactive hair . 
the main story . . . is compelling enough , but it's difficult to shrug off the annoyance of that chatty fish . 
the performances are immaculate , with roussillon providing comic relief . 
kinnear . . . gives his best screen performance with an oddly winning portrayal of one of life's ultimate losers . 
hugh grant , who has a good line in charm , has never been more charming than in about a boy . 
there's a lot of tooth in roger dodger . but what's nice is that there's a casual intelligence that permeates the script . 
reminiscent of alfred hitchcock's thrillers , most of the scary parts in 'signs' occur while waiting for things to happen . 
one of the best looking and stylish animated movies in quite a while . . . 
its use of the thriller form to examine the labyrinthine ways in which people's lives cross and change , buffeted by events seemingly out of their control , is intriguing , provocative stuff . 
denver should not get the first and last look at one of the most triumphant performances of vanessa redgrave's career . it deserves to be seen everywhere . 
you needn't be steeped in '50s sociology , pop culture or movie lore to appreciate the emotional depth of haynes' work . though haynes' style apes films from the period . . . its message is not rooted in that decade . 
waiting for godard can be fruitful : 'in praise of love' is the director's epitaph for himself . 
a gangster movie with the capacity to surprise . 
the film has a laundry list of minor shortcomings , but the numerous scenes of gory mayhem are worth the price of admission . . . if " gory mayhem " is your idea of a good time . 
if not a home run , then at least a solid base hit . 
goldmember is funny enough to justify the embarrassment of bringing a barf bag to the moviehouse . 
 . . . a fairly disposable yet still entertaining b picture . 
it may not be particularly innovative , but the film's crisp , unaffected style and air of gentle longing make it unexpectedly rewarding . 
the film truly does rescue [the funk brothers] from motown's shadows . it's about time . 
drawing on an irresistible , languid romanticism , byler reveals the ways in which a sultry evening or a beer-fueled afternoon in the sun can inspire even the most retiring heart to venture forth . 
works because we're never sure if ohlinger's on the level or merely a dying , delusional man trying to get into the history books before he croaks . 
[scherfig] has made a movie that will leave you wondering about the characters' lives after the clever credits roll . 
a heady , biting , be-bop ride through nighttime manhattan , a loquacious videologue of the modern male and the lengths to which he'll go to weave a protective cocoon around his own ego . 
skin of man gets a few cheap shocks from its kids-in-peril theatrics , but it also taps into the primal fears of young people trying to cope with the mysterious and brutal nature of adults . 
the piano teacher is not an easy film . it forces you to watch people doing unpleasant things to each other and themselves , and it maintains a cool distance from its material that is deliberately unsettling . 
as refreshing as a drink from a woodland stream . 
williams absolutely nails sy's queasy infatuation and overall strangeness . 
can i admit xxx is as deep as a petri dish and as well-characterized as a telephone book but still say it was a guilty pleasure ? 
while it's nothing we haven't seen before from murphy , i spy is still fun and enjoyable and so aggressively silly that it's more than a worthwhile effort . 
by the time it ends in a rush of sequins , flashbulbs , blaring brass and back-stabbing babes , it has said plenty about how show business has infiltrated every corner of society -- and not always for the better . 
an intimate contemplation of two marvelously messy lives . 
rarely has skin looked as beautiful , desirable , even delectable , as it does in trouble every day . 
this is one of those rare docs that paints a grand picture of an era and makes the journey feel like a party . 
poignant if familiar story of a young person suspended between two cultures . 
a metaphor for a modern-day urban china searching for its identity . 
for all its brooding quality , ash wednesday is suspenseful and ultimately unpredictable , with a sterling ensemble cast . 
an odd drama set in the world of lingerie models and bar dancers in the midwest that held my interest precisely because it didn't try to . 
the film feels uncomfortably real , its language and locations bearing the unmistakable stamp of authority . 
despite its faults , gangs excels in spectacle and pacing . 
entertaining despite its one-joke premise with the thesis that women from venus and men from mars can indeed get together . 
a tightly directed , highly professional film that's old-fashioned in all the best possible ways . 
it's dark but has wonderfully funny moments ; you care about the characters ; and the action and special effects are first-rate . 
in visual fertility treasure planet rivals the top japanese animations of recent vintage . 
enormously enjoyable , high-adrenaline documentary . 
buy is an accomplished actress , and this is a big , juicy role . 
it works its magic with such exuberance and passion that the film's length becomes a part of its fun . 
beautifully crafted and brutally honest , promises offers an unexpected window into the complexities of the middle east struggle and into the humanity of its people . 
an old-fashioned but emotionally stirring adventure tale of the kind they rarely make anymore . 
charlotte sometimes is a gem . it's always enthralling . 
in my opinion , analyze that is not as funny or entertaining as analyze this , but it is a respectable sequel . 
a remarkable film by bernard rose . 
zhuangzhuang creates delicate balance of style , text , and subtext that's so simple and precise that anything discordant would topple the balance , but against all odds , nothing does . 
a much more successful translation than its most famous previous film adaptation , writer-director anthony friedman's similarly updated 1970 british production . 
an original and highly cerebral examination of the psychopathic mind
michel piccoli's moving performance is this films reason for being . 
a captivating and intimate study about dying and loving . . . 
this is an elegantly balanced movie -- every member of the ensemble has something fascinating to do -- that doesn't reveal even a hint of artifice . 
[grant] goes beyond his usual fluttering and stammering and captures the soul of a man in pain who gradually comes to recognize it and deal with it . 
a high-spirited buddy movie about the reunion of berlin anarchists who face arrest 15 years after their crime . 
about the best thing you could say about narc is that it's a rock-solid little genre picture . whether you like it or not is basically a matter of taste . 
an involving , inspirational drama that sometimes falls prey to its sob-story trappings . 
some of the most inventive silliness you are likely to witness in a movie theatre for some time . 
canadian filmmaker gary burns' inventive and mordantly humorous take on the soullessness of work in the city . 
a rollicking ride , with jaw-dropping action sequences , striking villains , a gorgeous color palette , astounding technology , stirring music and a boffo last hour that leads up to a strangely sinister happy ending . 
everyone's insecure in lovely and amazing , a poignant and wryly amusing film about mothers , daughters and their relationships . 
the closest thing to the experience of space travel
full of surprises . 
connoisseurs of chinese film will be pleased to discover that tian's meticulous talent has not withered during his enforced hiatus . 
if you can push on through the slow spots , you'll be rewarded with some fine acting . 
an unusually dry-eyed , even analytical approach to material that is generally played for maximum moisture . 
symbolically , warm water under a red bridge is a celebration of feminine energy , a tribute to the power of women to heal . 
spy kids 2 also happens to be that rarity among sequels : it actually improves upon the original hit movie . 
exceptionally well acted by diane lane and richard gere . 
like a precious and finely cut diamond , magnificent to behold in its sparkling beauty yet in reality it's one tough rock . 
in addition to scoring high for originality of plot -- putting together familiar themes of family , forgiveness and love in a new way -- lilo & stitch has a number of other assets to commend it to movie audiences both innocent and jaded . 
miller has crafted an intriguing story of maternal instincts and misguided acts of affection . 
one of the most exciting action films to come out of china in recent years . 
this is a nervy , risky film , and villeneuve has inspired croze to give herself over completely to the tormented persona of bibi . 
my little eye is the best little " horror " movie i've seen in years . 
tunney , brimming with coltish , neurotic energy , holds the screen like a true star . 
even if the naipaul original remains the real masterpiece , the movie possesses its own languorous charm . 
[the film] tackles the topic of relationships in such a straightforward , emotionally honest manner that by the end , it's impossible to ascertain whether the film is , at its core , deeply pessimistic or quietly hopeful . 
sometimes we feel as if the film careens from one colorful event to another without respite , but sometimes it must have seemed to frida kahlo as if her life did , too . 
the strength of the film lies in its two central performances by sven wollter as the stricken composer and viveka seldahl as his desperate violinist wife . 
like the series , the movie is funny , smart , visually inventive , and most of all , alive . 
it was filled with shootings , beatings , and more cussing than you could shake a stick at . 
you don't know whether to admire the film's stately nature and call it classicism or be exasperated by a noticeable lack of pace . or both . 
sure , i hated myself in the morning . but then again , i hate myself most mornings . i still like moonlight mile , better judgment be damned . 
time out is as serious as a pink slip . and more than that , it's an observant , unfussily poetic meditation about identity and alienation . 
will assuredly rank as one of the cleverest , most deceptively amusing comedies of the year . 
maryam is a small film , but it offers large rewards . 
a highly watchable , giggly little story with a sweet edge to it . 
the most consistently funny of the austin powers films . 
ana's journey is not a stereotypical one of self-discovery , as she's already comfortable enough in her own skin to be proud of her rubenesque physique . . . 
cockettes has the glorious , gaudy benefit of much stock footage of those days , featuring all manner of drag queen , bearded lady and lactating hippie . 
there's something poignant about an artist of 90-plus years taking the effort to share his impressions of life and loss and time and art with us . 
the comedy makes social commentary more palatable . 
an ideal love story for those intolerant of the more common saccharine genre . 
one funny popcorn flick . 
this new zealand coming-of-age movie isn't really about anything . when it's this rich and luscious , who cares ? 
tully is worth a look for its true-to-life characters , its sensitive acting , its unadorned view of rural life and the subtle direction of first-timer hilary birmingham . 
this gorgeous epic is guaranteed to lift the spirits of the whole family . 
the wild thornberrys movie is pleasant enough and the message of our close ties with animals can certainly not be emphasized enough . 
williams creates a stunning , taxi driver-esque portrayal of a man teetering on the edge of sanity . 
if you're in the right b-movie frame of mind , it may just scare the pants off you . 
a movie of riveting power and sadness . 
both a detective story and a romance spiced with the intrigue of academic skullduggery and politics . 
quietly engaging . 
ludicrous , but director carl franklin adds enough flourishes and freak-outs to make it entertaining . 
director roger kumble offers just enough sweet and traditional romantic comedy to counter the crudity . and there's the inimitable diaz , holding it all together . 
spielberg's picture is smarter and subtler than [total recall and blade runner] , although its plot may prove too convoluted for fun-seeking summer audiences . 
it's got all the familiar bruckheimer elements , and schumacher does probably as good a job as anyone at bringing off the hopkins/rock collision of acting styles and onscreen personas . 
a grittily beautiful film that looks , sounds , and feels more like an extended , open-ended poem than a traditionally structured story . 
dense , exhilarating documentary . 
the production values are of the highest and the performances attractive without being memorable . 
a well-rounded tribute to a man whose achievements -- and complexities -- reached far beyond the end zone . 
finely crafted , finely written , exquisitely performed
ramsay and morton fill this character study with poetic force and buoyant feeling . 
this submarine drama earns the right to be favorably compared to das boot . 
claude chabrol's camera has a way of gently swaying back and forth as it cradles its characters , veiling tension beneath otherwise tender movements . 
there's a great deal of corny dialogue and preposterous moments . and yet , it still works . 
the film was immensely enjoyable thanks to great performances by both steve buscemi and rosario dawson . . . 
like many western action films , this thriller is too loud and thoroughly overbearing , but its heartfelt concern about north korea's recent past and south korea's future adds a much needed moral weight . 
special p . o . v . camera mounts on bikes , skateboards , and motorcycles provide an intense experience when splashed across the immense imax screen . 
a joyous occasion
mike white's deft combination of serious subject matter and dark , funny humor make " " the good girl " a film worth watching . 
this is a shrewd and effective film from a director who understands how to create and sustain a mood . 
meant to reduce blake's philosophy into a tragic coming-of-age saga punctuated by bursts of animator todd mcfarlane's superhero dystopia . 
assayas' ambitious , sometimes beautiful adaptation of jacques chardonne's novel . 
as ex-marine walter , who may or may not have shot kennedy , actor raymond j . barry is perfectly creepy and believable . 
those who don't entirely 'get' godard's distinctive discourse will still come away with a sense of his reserved but existential poignancy . 
pete's screenplay manages to find that real natural , even-flowing tone that few movies are able to accomplish . 
like brosnan's performance , evelyn comes from the heart . 
it uses some of the figures from the real-life story to portray themselves in the film . the result is a powerful , naturally dramatic piece of low-budget filmmaking . 
its spirit of iconoclastic abandon -- however canned -- makes for unexpectedly giddy viewing . 
the early and middle passages are surprising in how much they engage and even touch us . this is not a classical dramatic animated feature , nor a hip , contemporary , in-jokey one . it's sort of in-between , and it works . 
this quiet , introspective and entertaining independent is worth seeking . 
whether our action-and-popcorn obsessed culture will embrace this engaging and literate psychodrama isn't much of a mystery , unfortunately . 
whether or not ram dass proves as clear and reliable an authority on that as he was about inner consciousness , fierce grace reassures us that he will once again be an honest and loving one . 
sly , sophisticated and surprising . 
spare but quietly effective retelling . 
demonstrates a vivid imagination and an impressive style that result in some terrific setpieces . 
by its modest , straight-ahead standards , undisputed scores a direct hit . 
its story about a young chinese woman , ah na , who has come to new york city to replace past tragedy with the american dream is one that any art-house moviegoer is likely to find compelling . 
for those who like quirky , slightly strange french films , this is a must ! 
there are so few films about the plight of american indians in modern america that skins comes as a welcome , if downbeat , missive from a forgotten front . 
[shyamalan] continues to cut a swathe through mainstream hollywood , while retaining an integrity and refusing to compromise his vision . 
a whale of a good time for both children and parents seeking christian-themed fun . 
what begins as a film in the tradition of the graduate quickly switches into something more recyclable than significant . 
much smarter and more attentive than it first sets out to be . 
the story is smart and entirely charming in intent and execution . 
a movie of technical skill and rare depth of intellect and feeling . 
represents a worthy departure from the culture clash comedies that have marked an emerging indian american cinema . 
doesn't do more than expand a tv show to movie length . however , it's pleasant enough and its ecological , pro-wildlife sentiments are certainly welcome . 
if you're looking for an intelligent movie in which you can release your pent up anger , enough is just the ticket you need . 
a pointed , often tender , examination of the pros and cons of unconditional love and familial duties . 
as well-acted and well-intentioned as all or nothing is , however , the film comes perilously close to being too bleak , too pessimistic and too unflinching for its own good . 
a comedy-drama of nearly epic proportions rooted in a sincere performance by the title character undergoing midlife crisis . 
it's about issues most adults have to face in marriage and i think that's what i liked about it -- the real issues tucked between the silly and crude storyline . 
elegantly produced and expressively performed , the six musical numbers crystallize key plot moments into minutely detailed wonders of dreamlike ecstasy . 
enriched by a strong and unforced supporting cast . 
writer/ director m . night shyamalan's ability to pull together easily accessible stories that resonate with profundity is undeniable . 
if you can keep your eyes open amid all the blood and gore , you'll see del toro has brought unexpected gravity to blade ii . 
not a strike against yang's similarly themed yi yi , but i found what time ? to be more engaging on an emotional level , funnier , and on the whole less detached . 
a breathtaking adventure for all ages , spirit tells its poignant and uplifting story in a stunning fusion of music and images . 
a charming and funny story of clashing cultures and a clashing mother/daughter relationship . 
never lets go your emotions , taking them to surprising highs , sorrowful lows and hidden impulsive niches . . . gorgeous , passionate , and at times uncommonly moving . 
 " . . . something appears to have been lost in the translation this time . the importance of being earnest movie seems to be missing a great deal of the acerbic repartee of the play . " 
[washington's] strong hand , keen eye , sweet spirit and good taste are reflected in almost every scene . 
shiner can certainly go the distance , but isn't world championship material
the film's desire to be liked sometimes undermines the possibility for an exploration of the thornier aspects of the nature/nurture argument in regards to homosexuality . 
 . . . a quietly introspective portrait of the self-esteem of employment and the shame of losing a job . . . 
affable if not timeless , like mike raises some worthwhile themes while delivering a wholesome fantasy for kids . 
a film of delicate interpersonal dances . caine makes us watch as his character awakens to the notion that to be human is eventually to have to choose . it's a sight to behold . 
it's an unusual , thoughtful bio-drama with a rich subject and some fantastic moments and scenes . 
saved from being merely way-cool by a basic , credible compassion . 
the increasingly diverse french director has created a film that one can honestly describe as looking , sounding and simply feeling like no other film in recent history . 
gangs , despite the gravity of its subject matter , is often as fun to watch as a good spaghetti western . 
peter jackson has done the nearly impossible . he has improved upon the first and taken it a step further , richer and deeper . what jackson has done is proven that no amount of imagination , no creature , no fantasy story and no incredibly outlandish scenery
there has to be a few advantages to never growing old . like being able to hit on a 15-year old when you're over 100 . 
ice age won't drop your jaw , but it will warm your heart , and i'm giving it a strong thumbs up . 
like kissing jessica stein , amy's orgasm has a key strength in its willingness to explore its principal characters with honesty , insight and humor . 
the lady and the duke is eric rohmer's economical antidote to the bloated costume drama
one of the year's best films , featuring an oscar-worthy performance by julianne moore . 
a small gem from belgium . 
combines a comically dismal social realism with a farcically bawdy fantasy of redemption and regeneration . 
a soap-opera quality twist in the last 20 minutes . . . almost puts the kibosh on what is otherwise a sumptuous work of b-movie imagination . 
the most ingenious film comedy since being john malkovich . 
there's something to be said for a studio-produced film that never bothers to hand viewers a suitcase full of easy answers . 
a movie where story is almost an afterthought amidst a swirl of colors and inexplicable events . 
manages to accomplish what few sequels can -- it equals the original and in some ways even betters it . 
to call this one an eventual cult classic would be an understatement , and woe is the horror fan who opts to overlook this goofily endearing and well-lensed gorefest . 
jolie gives it that extra little something that makes it worth checking out at theaters , especially if you're in the mood for something more comfortable than challenging . 
although melodramatic and predictable , this romantic comedy explores the friendship between five filipino-americans and their frantic efforts to find love . 
i have a new favorite musical -- and i'm not even a fan of the genre
it's unlikely we'll see a better thriller this year . 
there is a real subject here , and it is handled with intelligence and care . 
jason patric and ray liotta make for one splendidly cast pair . 
noyce creates a film of near-hypnotic physical beauty even as he tells a story as horrifying as any in the heart-breakingly extensive annals of white-on-black racism . 
starts slowly , but adrien brody  in the title role  helps make the film's conclusion powerful and satisfying . 
very predictable but still entertaining
nothing short of a masterpiece -- and a challenging one . 
pratfalls aside , barbershop gets its greatest play from the timeless spectacle of people really talking to each other . 
this amiable picture talks tough , but it's all bluster -- in the end it's as sweet as greenfingers . . . 
this is one of mr . chabrol's subtlest works , but also one of his most uncanny . 
an engrossing iranian film about two itinerant teachers and some lost and desolate people they encounter in a place where war has savaged the lives and liberties of the poor and the dispossessed . 
even though we know the outcome , the seesawing of the general's fate in the arguments of competing lawyers has the stomach-knotting suspense of a legal thriller , while the testimony of witnesses lends the film a resonant undertone of tragedy . 
watching spirited away is like watching an eastern imagination explode . 
as relationships shift , director robert j . siegel allows the characters to inhabit their world without cleaving to a narrative arc . 
twohy knows how to inflate the mundane into the scarifying , and gets full mileage out of the rolling of a stray barrel or the unexpected blast of a phonograph record . 
while the story does seem pretty unbelievable at times , it's awfully entertaining to watch . 
a smart and funny , albeit sometimes superficial , cautionary tale of a technology in search of an artist . 
examines its explosive subject matter as nonjudgmentally as wiseman's previous studies of inner-city high schools , hospitals , courts and welfare centers . 
i prefer soderbergh's concentration on his two lovers over tarkovsky's mostly male , mostly patriarchal debating societies . 
'if you are in the mood for an intelligent weepy , it can easily worm its way into your heart . '
in imax in short , it's just as wonderful on the big screen . 
does a good job of establishing a time and place , and of telling a fascinating character's story . 
i'm going to give it a marginal thumbs up . i liked it just enough . 
those of you who don't believe in santa claus probably also think that sequels can never capture the magic of the original . well , this movie proves you wrong on both counts . 
a deliciously nonsensical comedy about a city coming apart at its seams . 
the rare imax movie that you'll wish was longer than an hour . 
my wife's plotting is nothing special ; it's the delivery that matters here . 
i've yet to find an actual vietnam war combat movie actually produced by either the north or south vietnamese , but at least now we've got something pretty damn close . 
a moving and not infrequently breathtaking film . 
it's a sharp movie about otherwise dull subjects . 
[an] absorbing documentary . 
it's like rocky and bullwinkle on speed , but that's neither completely enlightening , nor does it catch the intensity of the movie's strangeness . 
as action-adventure , this space-based homage to robert louis stevenson's treasure island fires on all plasma conduits . 
a melancholy , emotional film . 
while the filmmaking may be a bit disjointed , the subject matter is so fascinating that you won't care . 
intensely romantic , thought-provoking and even an engaging mystery . 
goofy , nutty , consistently funny . and educational ! 
not a schlocky creature feature but something far more stylish and cerebral--and , hence , more chillingly effective . 
another in a long line of ultra-violent war movies , this one is not quite what it could have been as a film , but the story and theme make up for it . 
it leaves little doubt that kidman has become one of our best actors . 
the film boasts dry humor and jarring shocks , plus moments of breathtaking mystery . 
beautifully directed and convincingly acted . 
gambling and throwing a basketball game for money isn't a new plot -- in fact toback himself used it in black and white . but toback's deranged immediacy makes it seem fresh again . 
in the director's cut , the film is not only a love song to the movies but it also is more fully an example of the kind of lush , all-enveloping movie experience it rhapsodizes . 
bring on the sequel . 
graced with the kind of social texture and realism that would be foreign in american teen comedies . 
if we sometimes need comforting fantasies about mental illness , we also need movies like tim mccann's revolution no . 9 . 
the film occasionally tries the viewer's patience with slow pacing and a main character who sometimes defies sympathy , but it ultimately satisfies with its moving story . 
a big-budget/all-star movie as unblinkingly pure as the hours is a distinct rarity , and an event . 
 . . . certainly an entertaining ride , despite many talky , slow scenes . but something seems to be missing . a sense of real magic , perhaps . 
that haynes can both maintain and dismantle the facades that his genre and his character construct is a wonderous accomplishment of veracity and narrative grace . 
the movie worked for me right up to the final scene , and then it caved in . 
 . . . one of the most entertaining monster movies in ages . . . 
plunges you into a reality that is , more often then not , difficult and sad , and then , without sentimentalizing it or denying its brutality , transforms that reality into a lyrical and celebratory vision . 
would you laugh if a tuba-playing dwarf rolled down a hill in a trash can ? do you chuckle at the thought of an ancient librarian whacking a certain part of a man's body ? if you answered yes , by all means enjoy the new guy . 
the film is . . . determined to treat its characters , weak and strong , as fallible human beings , not caricatures , and to carefully delineate the cost of the inevitable conflicts between human urges and an institution concerned with self-preservation . 
missteps take what was otherwise a fascinating , riveting story and send it down the path of the mundane . 
an indispensable peek at the art and the agony of making people laugh . 
steadfastly uncinematic but powerfully dramatic . 
the engagingly primitive animated special effects contribute to a mood that's sustained through the surprisingly somber conclusion . 
made-up lampoons the moviemaking process itself , while shining a not particularly flattering spotlight on america's skin-deep notions of pulchritude . 
evokes the 19th century with a subtlety that is an object lesson in period filmmaking . 
ya-yas everywhere will forgive the flaws and love the film . 
the film's best trick is the way that it treats conspiracy as a kind of political blair witch , a monstrous murk that haunts us precisely because it can never be seen . 
the artwork is spectacular and unlike most animaton from japan , the characters move with grace and panache . 
the picture's fascinating byways are littered with trenchant satirical jabs at the peculiar egocentricities of the acting breed . 
the modern remake of dumas's story is long on narrative and ( too ) short on action . 
fred schepisi's film is paced at a speed that is slow to those of us in middle age and deathly slow to any teen . with a cast of a-list brit actors , it is worth searching out . 
suffers from its timid parsing of the barn-side target of sons trying to breach gaps in their relationships with their fathers . 
nonchalantly freaky and uncommonly pleasurable , warm water may well be the year's best and most unpredictable comedy . 
it's like an old warner bros . costumer jived with sex -- this could be the movie errol flynn always wanted to make , though bette davis , cast as joan , would have killed him . 
it's a great american adventure and a wonderful film to bring to imax . 
satisfyingly scarifying , fresh and old-fashioned at the same time . 
oh , james ! your 20th outing shows off a lot of stamina and vitality , and get this , madonna's cameo doesn't suck ! 
a genuine mind-bender . 
that death is merely a transition is a common tenet in the world's religions . this deeply spiritual film taps into the meaning and consolation in afterlife communications . 
there is something that is so meditative and lyrical about babak payami's boldly quirky iranian drama secret ballot . . . a charming and evoking little ditty that manages to show the gentle and humane side of middle eastern world politics
a huge box-office hit in korea , shiri is a must for genre fans . 
 . . . planos fijos , tomas largas , un ritmo pausado y una sutil observacin de sus personajes , sin estridencias ni grandes revelaciones . 
i'm not a fan of the phrase 'life affirming' because it usually means 'schmaltzy , ' but real women have curves truly is life affirming . 
the symbols float like butterflies and the spinning styx sting like bees . i wanted more . 
if it's unnerving suspense you're after -- you'll find it with ring , an indisputably spooky film ; with a screenplay to die for . 
the art direction and costumes are gorgeous and finely detailed , and kurys' direction is clever and insightful . 
red dragon makes one appreciate silence of the lambs . 
proves a servicable world war ii drama that can't totally hide its contrivances , but it at least calls attention to a problem hollywood too long has ignored . 
leigh isn't breaking new ground , but he knows how a daily grind can kill love . 
while broomfield's film doesn't capture the effect of these tragic deaths on hip-hop culture , it succeeds as a powerful look at a failure of our justice system . 
 . . . strips bible stores of the potential for sanctimoniousness , making them meaningful for both kids and church-wary adults . 
laugh-out-loud lines , adorably ditsy but heartfelt performances , and sparkling , bittersweet dialogue that cuts to the chase of the modern girl's dilemma . 
tends to pile too many " serious issues " on its plate at times , yet remains fairly light , always entertaining , and smartly written . 
a solidly entertaining little film . 
it's an entertaining movie , and the effects , boosted to the size of a downtown hotel , will all but take you to outer space . 
sayles has a knack for casting , often resurrecting performers who rarely work in movies now . . . and drawing flavorful performances from bland actors . 
despite an overwrought ending , the film works as well as it does because of the performances . 
a passionately inquisitive film determined to uncover the truth and hopefully inspire action . 
though nijinsky's words grow increasingly disturbed , the film maintains a beguiling serenity and poise that make it accessible for a non-narrative feature . 
a muddle splashed with bloody beauty as vivid as any scorsese has ever given us . 
from both a great and a terrible story , mr . nelson has made a film that is an undeniably worthy and devastating experience . 
spider-man is about growing strange hairs , getting a more mature body , and finding it necessary to hide new secretions from the parental units . 
the first shocking thing about sorority boys is that it's actually watchable . even more baffling is that it's funny . 
highlighted by a gritty style and an excellent cast , it's better than one might expect when you look at the list of movies starring ice-t in a major role . 
neither quite a comedy nor a romance , more of an impish divertissement of themes that interest attal and gainsbourg -- they live together -- the film has a lot of charm . 
first and foremost . . . the reason to go see " blue crush " is the phenomenal , water-born cinematography by david hennings . 
a visionary marvel , but it's lacking a depth in storytelling usually found in anime like this . 
the problems and characters it reveals are universal and involving , and the film itself -- as well its delightful cast -- is so breezy , pretty and gifted , it really won my heart . 
in his latest effort , storytelling , solondz has finally made a movie that isn't just offensive -- it also happens to be good . 
how i killed my father would be a rarity in hollywood . it's an actor's showcase that accomplishes its primary goal without the use of special effects , but rather by emphasizing the characters -- including the supporting ones . 
i just saw this movie . . . well , it's probably not accurate to call it a movie . 
what's most memorable about circuit is that it's shot on digital video , whose tiny camera enables shafer to navigate spaces both large . . . and small . . . with considerable aplomb . 
scherfig , the writer-director , has made a film so unabashedly hopeful that it actually makes the heart soar . yes , soar . 
a delicious and delicately funny look at the residents of a copenhagen neighborhood coping with the befuddling complications life tosses at them . 
 " what really happened ? " is a question for philosophers , not filmmakers ; all the filmmakers need to do is engage an audience . 
soderbergh , like kubrick before him , may not touch the planet's skin , but understands the workings of its spirit . 
much credit must be given to the water-camera operating team of don king , sonny miller , and michael stewart . their work is fantastic . 
crush is so warm and fuzzy you might be able to forgive its mean-spirited second half . 
franco is an excellent choice for the walled-off but combustible hustler , but he does not give the transcendent performance sonny needs to overcome gaps in character development and story logic . 
tsai ming-liang's witty , wistful new film , what time is it there ? , is a temporal inquiry that shoulders its philosophical burden lightly . 
the pianist lacks the quick emotional connections of steven spielberg's schindler's list . but mr . polanski creates images even more haunting than those in mr . spielberg's 1993 classic . 
steers , in his feature film debut , has created a brilliant motion picture . 
a brilliant , absurd collection of vignettes that , in their own idiosyncratic way , sum up the strange horror of life in the new millennium . 
as warm as it is wise , deftly setting off uproarious humor with an underlying seriousness that sneaks up on the viewer , providing an experience that is richer than anticipated . 
the film may not hit as hard as some of the better drug-related pictures , but it still manages to get a few punches in . 
old-fashioned but thoroughly satisfying entertainment . 
an energizing , intoxicating documentary charting the rise of hip-hop culture in general and the art of scratching ( or turntablism ) in particular . 
a fun family movie that's suitable for all ages -- a movie that will make you laugh , cry and realize , 'it's never too late to believe in your dreams . '
if you open yourself up to mr . reggio's theory of this imagery as the movie's set . . . it can impart an almost visceral sense of dislocation and change . 
i had a dream that a smart comedy would come along to rescue me from a summer of teen-driven , toilet-humor codswallop , and its name was earnest . 
even though the film doesn't manage to hit all of its marks , it's still entertaining to watch the target practice . 
where this was lazy but enjoyable , a formula comedy redeemed by its stars , that is even lazier and far less enjoyable . 
the 3-d vistas from orbit , with the space station suspended like a huge set of wind chimes over the great blue globe , are stanzas of breathtaking , awe-inspiring visual poetry . 
the attraction between these two marginal characters is complex from the start -- and , refreshingly , stays that way . 
fans of the modern day hong kong action film finally have the worthy successor to a better tomorrow and the killer which they have been patiently waiting for . 
even when he's not at his most critically insightful , godard can still be smarter than any 50 other filmmakers still at work . 
what sets this romantic comedy apart from most hollywood romantic comedies is its low-key way of tackling what seems like done-to-death material . 
has enough wit , energy and geniality to please not only the fanatical adherents on either side , but also people who know nothing about the subject and think they're not interested . 
this seductive tease of a thriller gets the job done . it's a scorcher . 
bittersweet comedy/drama full of life , hand gestures , and some really adorable italian guys . 
works as pretty contagious fun . 
the best didacticism is one carried by a strong sense of humanism , and bertrand tavernier's oft-brilliant safe conduct ( " laissez-passer " ) wears its heart on its sleeve . 
a realistically terrifying movie that puts another notch in the belt of the long list of renegade-cop tales . 
a charming , banter-filled comedy . . . one of those airy cinematic bon bons whose aims -- and by extension , accomplishments -- seem deceptively slight on the surface . 
a film with almost as many delights for adults as there are for children and dog lovers . 
serious movie-goers embarking upon this journey will find that the road to perdition leads to a satisfying destination . 
heartwarming and gently comic even as the film breaks your heart . 
caruso sometimes descends into sub-tarantino cuteness . . . but for the most part he makes sure the salton sea works the way a good noir should , keeping it tight and nasty . 
a " black austin powers ? " i prefer to think of it as " pootie tang with a budget . " sa da tay ! 
oddly , the film isn't nearly as downbeat as it sounds , but strikes a tone that's alternately melancholic , hopeful and strangely funny . 
i would be shocked if there was actually one correct interpretation , but that shouldn't make the movie or the discussion any less enjoyable . 
chouraqui brings documentary-like credibility to the horrors of the killing field and the barbarism of 'ethnic cleansing . '
the best thing i can say about this film is that i can't wait to see what the director does next . 
smarter than its commercials make it seem . 
great character interaction . 
one of the funnier movies in town . 
campanella's competent direction and his excellent cast overcome the obstacles of a predictable outcome and a screenplay that glosses over rafael's evolution . 
by turns very dark and very funny . 
steven soderbergh doesn't remake andrei tarkovsky's solaris so much as distill it . 
for more than two decades mr . nachtwey has traveled to places in the world devastated by war , famine and poverty and documented the cruelty and suffering he has found with an devastating , eloquent clarity . 
simultaneously heartbreakingly beautiful and exquisitely sad . 
though overall an overwhelmingly positive portrayal , the film doesn't ignore the more problematic aspects of brown's life . 
the philosophical musings of the dialogue jar against the tawdry soap opera antics of the film's action in a way that is surprisingly enjoyable . 
not too fancy , not too filling , not too fluffy , but definitely tasty and sweet . 
quando tiros em columbine acerta o alvo ( com o perd?o do trocadilho ) , n?o h como negar o brilhantismo da argumenta??o de seu diretor . 
director lee has a true cinematic knack , but it's also nice to see a movie with its heart so thoroughly , unabashedly on its sleeve . 
as allen's execution date closes in , the documentary gives an especially poignant portrait of her friendship with the never flagging legal investigator david presson . 
jones has tackled a meaty subject and drawn engaging characters while peppering the pages with memorable zingers . 
a vivid , spicy footnote to history , and a movie that grips and holds you in rapt attention from start to finish . 
if s&m seems like a strange route to true love , maybe it is , but it's to this film's ( and its makers' ) credit that we believe that that's exactly what these two people need to find each other -- and themselves . 
if the film's vision of sport as a secular religion is a bit cloying , its through-line of family and community is heartening in the same way that each season marks a new start . 
one of the best of a growing strain of daring films . . . that argue that any sexual relationship that doesn't hurt anyone and works for its participants is a relationship that is worthy of our respect . 
an adorably whimsical comedy that deserves more than a passing twinkle . 
an engrossing story that combines psychological drama , sociological reflection , and high-octane thriller . 
it's easy to be cynical about documentaries in which underdogs beat the odds and the human spirit triumphs , but westbrook's foundation and dalrymple's film earn their uplift . 
mel gibson fights the good fight in vietnam in director randall wallace's flag-waving war flick with a core of decency . 
there's real visual charge to the filmmaking , and a strong erotic spark to the most crucial lip-reading sequence . 
a brutal and funny work . nicole holofcenter , the insightful writer/director responsible for this illuminating comedy doesn't wrap the proceedings up neatly but the ideas tie together beautifully . 
the film is a blunt indictment , part of a perhaps surreal campaign to bring kissinger to trial for crimes against humanity . 
one of the most important and exhilarating forms of animated filmmaking since old walt doodled steamboat willie . 
move over bond ; this girl deserves a sequel . 
the kind of trifle that date nights were invented for . 
 . it's a testament to the film's considerable charm that it succeeds in entertaining , despite playing out like a feature-length sitcom replete with stereotypical familial quandaries . there's a sheer unbridled delight in the way the story unfurls . . . 
tells ( the story ) with such atmospheric ballast that shrugging off the plot's persnickety problems is simply a matter of ( being ) in a shrugging mood . 
the film is hard to dismiss -- moody , thoughtful , and lit by flashes of mordant humor . 
if the man from elysian fields is doomed by its smallness , it is also elevated by it--the kind of movie that you enjoy more because you're one of the lucky few who sought it out . 
what emerges is an unsettling picture of childhood innocence combined with indoctrinated prejudice . promises is a compelling piece that demonstrates just how well children can be trained to live out and carry on their parents' anguish . 
meticulously uncovers a trail of outrageous force and craven concealment . 
hey , happy ! is many things -- stoner midnight flick , sci-fi deconstruction , gay fantasia -- but above all it's a love story as sanguine as its title . 
you won't look at religious fanatics -- or backyard sheds -- the same way again . 
at its best . . . festival in cannes bubbles with the excitement of the festival in cannes . 
there is a general air of exuberance in all about the benjamins that's hard to resist . 
a lovably old-school hollywood confection . 
i'm happy to have seen it -- not as an alternate version , but as the ultimate exercise in viewing deleted scenes . 
by turns gripping , amusing , tender and heart-wrenching , laissez-passer has all the earmarks of french cinema at its best . 
the warnings to resist temptation in this film . . . are blunt and challenging and offer no easy rewards for staying clean . 
wonder of wonders -- a teen movie with a humanistic message . 
a quirky comedy set in newfoundland that cleverly captures the dry wit that's so prevalent on the rock . 
peppered with witty dialogue and inventive moments . 
i'd rather watch a rerun of the powerpuff girls
with the prospect of films like kangaroo jack about to burst across america's winter movie screens it's a pleasure to have a film like the hours as an alternative . 
the wonderful combination of the sweetness and the extraordinary technical accomplishments of the first film are maintained , but its overall impact falls a little flat with a storyline that never quite delivers the original magic . 
like its title character , this nicholas nickleby finds itself in reduced circumstances -- and , also like its hero , it remains brightly optimistic , coming through in the end . 
as a thoughtful and unflinching examination of an alternative lifestyle , sex with strangers is a success . 
unpretentious , charming , quirky , original
spinning a web of dazzling entertainment may be overstating it , but " spider-man " certainly delivers the goods . 
other than the slightly flawed ( and fairly unbelievable ) finale , everything else is top shelf . 
this fascinating look at israel in ferment feels as immediate as the latest news footage from gaza and , because of its heightened , well-shaped dramas , twice as powerful . 
manages to delight without much of a story . 
there's no denying that burns is a filmmaker with a bright future ahead of him . 
i have a confession to make : i didn't particularly like e . t . the first time i saw it as a young boy . that is because - damn it ! - i also wanted a little alien as a friend ! 
fairy-tale formula , serves as a paper skeleton for some very good acting , dialogue , comedy , direction and especially charm . 
a genuinely funny ensemble comedy that also asks its audience -- in a heartwarming , nonjudgmental kind of way -- to consider what we value in our daily lives . 
though the aboriginal aspect lends the ending an extraordinary poignancy , and the story itself could be played out in any working class community in the nation . 
an energetic and engaging film that never pretends to be something it isn't . 
a violent initiation rite for the audience , as much as it is for angelique , the [opening] dance guarantees karmen's enthronement among the cinema's memorable women . 
an animation landmark as monumental as disney's 1937 breakthrough snow white and the seven dwarfs . 
an entertaining , if ultimately minor , thriller . 
sex with strangers is fascinating . . . 
a subtle , poignant picture of goodness that is flawed , compromised and sad . 
a wry , affectionate delight . 
the acting in pauline and paulette is good all round , but what really sets the film apart is debrauwer's refusal to push the easy emotional buttons . 
one of those joyous films that leaps over national boundaries and celebrates universal human nature . 
a penetrating glimpse into the tissue-thin ego of the stand-up comic . 
kids should have a stirring time at this beautifully drawn movie . and adults will at least have a dream image of the west to savor whenever the film's lamer instincts are in the saddle . 
paid in full is remarkably engaging despite being noticeably derivative of goodfellas and at least a half dozen other trouble-in-the-ghetto flicks . 
less cinematically powerful than quietly and deeply moving , which is powerful in itself . 
waydowntown manages to nail the spirit-crushing ennui of denuded urban living without giving in to it . 
each of these stories has the potential for touched by an angel simplicity and sappiness , but thirteen conversations about one thing , for all its generosity and optimism , never resorts to easy feel-good sentiments . 
if borstal boy isn't especially realistic , it is an engaging nostalgia piece . 
often demented in a good way , but it is an uneven film for the most part . 
the script's snazzy dialogue establishes a realistic atmosphere that involves us in the unfolding crisis , but the lazy plotting ensures that little of our emotional investment pays off . 
maggie smith as the ya-ya member with the o2-tank will absolutely crack you up with her crass , then gasp for gas , verbal deportment . 
this is a movie that refreshes the mind and spirit along with the body , so original is its content , look , and style . 
although i didn't hate this one , it's not very good either . it can be safely recommended as a video/dvd babysitter . 
another best of the year selection . 
the film has the high-buffed gloss and high-octane jolts you expect of de palma , but what makes it transporting is that it's also one of the smartest , most pleasurable expressions of pure movie love to come from an american director in years . 
it's a very valuable film . . . 
max pokes , provokes , takes expressionistic license and hits a nerve . . . as far as art is concerned , it's mission accomplished . 
literary purists may not be pleased , but as far as mainstream matinee-style entertainment goes , it does a bang-up job of pleasing the crowds . 
here polanski looks back on those places he saw at childhood , and captures them by freeing them from artefact , and by showing them heartbreakingly drably . 
intriguing and stylish . 
the story itself it mostly told through on-camera interviews with several survivors , whose riveting memories are rendered with such clarity that it's as if it all happened only yesterday . 
a compelling story of musical passion against governmental odds . 
with " ichi the killer " , takashi miike , japan's wildest filmmaker gives us a crime fighter carrying more emotional baggage than batman . . . 
you never know where changing lanes is going to take you but it's a heck of a ride . samuel l . jackson is one of the best actors there is . 
[breheny's] lensing of the new zealand and cook island locations captures both the beauty of the land and the people . 
an almost unbearably morbid love story . 
the wild thornberrys movie has all the sibling rivalry and general family chaos to which anyone can relate . 
a forceful drama of an alienated executive who re-invents himself . 
spielberg's realization of a near-future america is masterful . this makes minority report necessary viewing for sci-fi fans , as the film has some of the best special effects ever . 
the gags that fly at such a furiously funny pace that the only rip off that we were aware of was the one we felt when the movie ended so damned soon . 
the best film of the year 2002 . 
an enthralling , entertaining feature . 
stripped almost entirely of such tools as nudity , profanity and violence , labute does manage to make a few points about modern man and his problematic quest for human connection . 
a remarkable movie with an unsatisfying ending , which is just the point . 
all in all , brown sugar is a satisfying well-made romantic comedy that's both charming and well acted . it will guarantee to have you leaving the theater with a smile on your face . 
smith finds amusing juxtapositions that justify his exercise . 
working from a surprisingly sensitive script co-written by gianni romoli . . . ozpetek avoids most of the pitfalls you'd expect in such a potentially sudsy set-up . 
an older cad instructs a younger lad in zen and the art of getting laid in this prickly indie comedy of manners and misanthropy . 
 " austin powers in goldmember " has the right stuff for silly summer entertainment and has enough laughs to sustain interest to the end . 
one of [jaglom's] better efforts -- a wry and sometime bitter movie about love . 
schaeffer isn't in this film , which may be why it works as well as it does . 
a fresh , entertaining comedy that looks at relationships minus traditional gender roles . 
although estela bravo's documentary is cloyingly hagiographic in its portrait of cuban leader fidel castro , it's still a guilty pleasure to watch . 
surprisingly , the film is a hilarious adventure and i shamelessly enjoyed it . 
the way home is an ode to unconditional love and compassion garnered from years of seeing it all , a condition only the old are privy to , and . . . often misconstrued as weakness . 
brutally honest and told with humor and poignancy , which makes its message resonate . 
if you can read the subtitles ( the opera is sung in italian ) and you like 'masterpiece theatre' type costumes , you'll enjoy this movie . 
a pretty funny movie , with most of the humor coming , as before , from the incongruous but chemically perfect teaming of crystal and de niro . 
gangster no . 1 is solid , satisfying fare for adults . 
this chicago has hugely imaginative and successful casting to its great credit , as well as one terrific score and attitude to spare . 
has enough gun battles and throwaway humor to cover up the yawning chasm where the plot should be . 
with its jerky hand-held camera and documentary feel , bloody sunday is a sobering recount of a very bleak day in derry . 
you will likely prefer to keep on watching . 
insomnia loses points when it surrenders to a formulaic bang-bang , shoot-em-up scene at the conclusion . but the performances of pacino , williams , and swank keep the viewer wide-awake all the way through . 
what might have been readily dismissed as the tiresome rant of an aging filmmaker still thumbing his nose at convention takes a surprising , subtle turn at the midway point . 
at a time when commercialism has squeezed the life out of whatever idealism american moviemaking ever had , godfrey reggio's career shines like a lonely beacon . 
an inuit masterpiece that will give you goosebumps as its uncanny tale of love , communal discord , and justice unfolds . 
this is popcorn movie fun with equal doses of action , cheese , ham and cheek ( as well as a serious debt to the road warrior ) , but it feels like unrealized potential
it's a testament to de niro and director michael caton-jones that by movie's end , we accept the characters and the film , flaws and all . 
performances are potent , and the women's stories are ably intercut and involving . 
an enormously entertaining movie , like nothing we've ever seen before , and yet completely familiar . 
lan yu is a genuine love story , full of traditional layers of awakening and ripening and separation and recovery . 
your children will be occupied for 72 minutes . 
pull[s] off the rare trick of recreating not only the look of a certain era , but also the feel . 
twohy's a good yarn-spinner , and ultimately the story compels . 
'tobey maguire is a poster boy for the geek generation . '
 . . . a sweetly affecting story about four sisters who are coping , in one way or another , with life's endgame . 
passion , melodrama , sorrow , laugther , and tears cascade over the screen effortlessly . . . 
road to perdition does display greatness , and it's worth seeing . but it also comes with the laziness and arrogance of a thing that already knows it's won . 
a marvelous performance by allison lohman as an identity-seeking foster child . 
arliss howard's ambitious , moving , and adventurous directorial debut , big bad love , meets so many of the challenges it poses for itself that one can forgive the film its flaws . 
critics need a good laugh , too , and this too-extreme-for-tv rendition of the notorious mtv show delivers the outrageous , sickening , sidesplitting goods in steaming , visceral heaps . 
what a dumb , fun , curiously adolescent movie this is . 
many insightful moments . 
the charms of the lead performances allow us to forget most of the film's problems . 
a vivid , sometimes surreal , glimpse into the mysteries of human behavior . 
a tour de force of modern cinema . 
peralta captures , in luminous interviews and amazingly evocative film from three decades ago , the essence of the dogtown experience . 
the lively appeal of the last kiss lies in the ease with which it integrates thoughtfulness and pasta-fagioli comedy . 
without resorting to camp or parody , haynes ( like sirk , but differently ) has transformed the rhetoric of hollywood melodrama into something provocative , rich , and strange . 
the performances are an absolute joy . 
a quasi-documentary by french filmmaker karim dridi that celebrates the hardy spirit of cuban music . 
grant carries the day with impeccable comic timing , raffish charm and piercing intellect . 
a sensitive and astute first feature by anne-sophie birot . 
both exuberantly romantic and serenely melancholy , what time is it there ? may prove to be [tsai's] masterpiece . 
mazel tov to a film about a family's joyous life acting on the yiddish stage . 
standing in the shadows of motown is the best kind of documentary , one that makes a depleted yesterday feel very much like a brand-new tomorrow . 
it's nice to see piscopo again after all these years , and chaykin and headly are priceless . 
provides a porthole into that noble , trembling incoherence that defines us all . 






